Dominic: Now, so before our talk I was more entertaining. Now our... We will do another formal introduction. And this time we have some videos, because this panel will be for talking about more like spatial AI, which is aligned with all the experts sitting here along with me. So yeah, hi. My name is Dominic Uru. Yeah, finally formally introduce our panel. I'm currently working for, as an Asian professor for Kenyatta College. Also serve as AI fellows, one of the AI fellows at chancellor's office. So, yeah, I wanna share with you the things that I've been working on. Just like what Hila mentioned before, I'm helping some professors turning their curriculums into XR. So, we can start with this video trailer very quick. How can I do this? How can I play it?

Speaker (from video): Imagine a world where stories come alive. In a world where distractions are endless, reading is a chore. Meet LitStage, a mixed reality game that brings literature to life. Dive into the story, play the literary piece, and learn through interactive experiences. Explore the world of "Moby Dick," learn the whaling industry, and uncover the spirit of the story. With more games coming soon, our goal is to put all of literature into fun, engaging experiences. And with our desktop version, educators can add their personal touch to make learning even more engaging. Join the journey, learn more at litstage.ai. LitStage, where stories come alive.

Speaker (from video): I paid for my own college, so I knew I'd have to start accumulating a lot of money paying student loans, paying rent. There wasn't much leftover. Every month, I put whatever I could have-

Dominic: You don't have to learn this. Yeah, so this is more like a literature part. And the other one is the reason one that we did for Professor Par, who is also one of the AI fellow. We turned her curriculum into a VR game experience with the... Yeah, how can I even do this?

Audience: Space bar.

Dominic: Space bar? Oh, okay. Oh, thank you. Yeah, so at the beginning we have a tutorial. Yeah, and then Professor Par wants to create kind of like a chat bot, local chat bot, like a play lab, but in VR. So, we create that for her. And also she wants to let students to create hypothesis and also grow pee plants. And with compound X, mysterious substance in Amazon jungle. And there's a female ferry to emphasize the AI, aligned with vision 2030. That's the most important thing. So yeah, so we are doing more hands on for students getting. And this is like the chat bot for students who practice hypothesis. Yeah. Are using ChatGPT. Yeah, OpenAI. Yeah, so yeah, this is possible. Yeah, okay. So, this is what we've been doing. And if you are very interested in working with us to turn your curriculum into VR or immersive experience, feel free to contact me. And then next one will be Inga. Do you wanna talk about your strip section?

Inga: That video was more like just to... Should we start from introductions, or you just want to play the videos now?

Dominic: Do you wanna introduce again, and so I play it? Yeah, more formal. Yeah.

Inga: Let's start with me. So, hello everyone. I'm Inga, I'm founder and CEO of ShapesXR. Computer scientist by education. Worked in big corporate companies for almost 15 years, and started this VR company almost eight years ago. And basically the mission behind ShapesXR is to make design, collaboration, and prototyping as simple as possible. You don't need to have any 3D scales, you don't need to know how to code. And inspired by the fact that understanding the scale and 3D in VR is so much easier than on a flat screen.

So right now, the video that is playing, it's not about that much ShapesXR, it's just one example of the college in the state of Washington that was using Shapes for, and encourage students to just be creative, collaborate, and talk about our biology in VR, in a shared space. All of them can be in the same shared space, and they can really interact with models, and they can build fully interactive and animated presentations and prototypes.

So, even though Shapes was built to enable content for wearables, meaning VR headsets, AR glasses, and stuff like that, we see some incredible traction with universities, community colleges, and high school. By the way, I have no idea how the budgets are being distributed. Because sometimes you come to Stanford Design School and no one have a headset. And then some really unknown high school from the East coast is reaching out and mentioning that they got 50 Meta Quests. And they do want to introduce XR to the curricular, make students becoming very creative and push them from pure content consumption to creation. Because when they created something, they're eager to experience that, they are eager to present that to others, and this is how they learn.

And there are lots of research showing that, understanding a lot of subject that are about 3D things. It's about, our world is spatial, right? Spatial connections is super, super powerful. But I probably stop here, so it was probably too long introduction. Yeah, I want others to speak.

Dominic: No worries. Yeah, ShapesXR is an amazing tool. A few years ago, right? X-Reality Pro, if you saw the previous videos, we work with ShapesXR and create a hacker zone. And we had around a hundred people sign up. Yeah, and we, at the end, we deliver seven group projects, and those are super amazing. Yeah, so definitely go to ShapesXR website and take a look. And you have education plan, right, for educators? Yeah, can you tell us a educator plan?

Inga: I mean, we do believe that it's really help you to engage students in entirely new way. We also love to see how comfortable teachers are to use the platform, again, because it's so accessible and easy. And we have people who help you, onboard you. We have lessons plan. So you can just request a lesson plan, and then you have your entire semester educational plan. We build that because sometimes it's so hard to introduce something new to the college. You have to build the program, you have to build the entire set of slides and presentations. So, we did that.

And yeah, we tried to support schools to introduce XR. We helped communicate that to budget owners. If you need hardware, if you don't need hardware, we give advice what hardware is better today. And a lot of case studies, a lot of case studies with high schools, with colleges, with universities, with some measurable return of investment.

And I see that universities try to be competitive. And my daughter is a senior, a 12th grade student at Palo Alta High School. And every week we get a lot of promotions from different universities. And I see so many times when they advertise headsets on their promotional brochure. So, it means that universities want to stand out, to be innovative, to show that we are teaching you the professions of the future, we are teaching you the skills that will be in demand five years from now. And I really strongly believe that you have to teach students spatial thinking, building content, experience content in this new competing platform. Because I strongly believe that the flat screen is an incredible computing platform, but the future of computing is spatial. So, that's why I really encourage you at least to start exploring that and start immersing yourself into this new medium. And then there are so many startups like our company, and we have other beautiful, great tools that are very collaborative and we want to help. And we talk to every school, every university that wants to start teaching XR.

Dominic: Cool, yeah. So, next one will be Ken. Can you give us a little bit intro of who you are, what do you do, and what inspired you to be here today?

Ken: Well, you asked me, that's what inspired me, but. Hi, my name is Ken Kubota. I am a serial entrepreneur myself. I started my career at Microsoft, worked there for seven years. Then I worked directly with the CEO of Intel for over 10 years. Andy Grove. And one of the things that is drilled into me by working for him was he was very, very passionate about providing young students, young adults a safety net. For those who are obviously headed for college, absolutely provide that path. But what's really missing in this country is vocational training. To where many talented people never realize their talents and their ability to provide a society because of our lack of vocational training. And this is where the junior college system is really, really important.

So, with that said, my career has been filled with creating innovations in digital health. From developing the first at home device for Parkinson's disease patients, direct to brain drug delivery platform. Five years ago I developed a phone bot that answered the phone at Houston Methodist and New York Presbyterian, some of the largest hospitals in our country, to triage COVID patients when they called at 02:30 in the morning. And that bot would either direct patients to a telehealth session, or to a COVID testing center, or direct them and connect them directly to the CDC for more information. It was a drastic time, and the bot was able to triage 50 million patients during that time in 2020, 2021.

And now, I'm the chief product officer at a company called IDS Infotech. And we're using AI and 3D rendering to automate revenue cycle management. That is the billing process in healthcare. Really putting it to the insurance companies to pay up. And also in the supply chain of surgical supplies, which is, represents $20 billion of waste in our healthcare system.

And so, when I look at the bigger picture of what everyone here is doing in the realm of AI and XR, I think it's really, really super important. From a practical sense, I'm also a father of two teenagers. And my son, he's 15, he's in his sophomore year. And on occasion I'll hesitantly ask, how's it going, and how school's going. And he'd make the perfect terrorist hostage because you're not gonna get any information out of him. He's the expert at one word answers. Ah, how's school? "Good." What's interesting? "Nothing." What do you mean nothing? "It's all boring." Okay, what are you studying? "Ming dynasty in history." And I go, "Ming dynasty, holy cow." The Ming dynasty was responsible for finishing off the Great Wall of China and the forbidden city. And to him, it's just words off of a page. And things, factoids he just has to remember.

And it was the same for me, until 20 years later, I got to take a business trip to Beijing. And see the Great Wall of China and the forbidden city myself. And then it came back to me like, oh, this is what we're talking about. The Great Wall of China is the only human edifice that's visible from space. And I saw it for myself, standing on top of it just going into infinity. And it's that visceral experience that I got, that is not present in the classroom, that could bring, that XR could bring to life. It's really about bringing that visceral experience to students to emphasize the significance of what they're reading or being taught in front of them. And in a way that is highly scalable, very cheap, in relationship to actually going to these places.

And I really believe that when we talk about invisible technology, you think about, if you watch an episode of "Friends" or you watch a episode of "Psych," you realize, wow, there's not much difference between the actors who did the series 20 years ago versus today. There's virtually, I mean, you couldn't tell. Other than the fact that every once in a while they may they pull up a flip phone. That's the really only visible difference. And our lives today is vastly, vastly different from our lives 20 years ago. And it's going to become more and more that way. To the extent that as the technology fades into the background and becomes more powerful, at the same time our values are gonna become more apparent. Even amplified, as we all are experiencing right now. And so, really, if I would say, is that empathy and storytelling is the operating system for which the machines could never replicate. And this is what we need to bestow to our students now. It's inevitable. Right? With more and more of this information at our fingertips, 3D is definitely going to be an inevitability. And really, if there's anything I'd like you to walk away with, it's how to think about it.

Dominic: Okay, yeah. So, another speaker.

Inga: While passing the microphone, I mean-

Dominic: Yeah, only that one works.

Inga: Just a quick note on what Ken just mentioned. Even though I do wish every students see the Great Wall of China with their own eyes, because it's still possible, right? There's lots of things that just can't be seen, right? And when I was part of the back to school night and the professor for my daughter in high school, he showed a little bit piece of the actual lesson that he's teaching. And he was explaining, imagine the stars are so small, and this coin, imagine. So, you have to imagine a lot just listening to him. But imagine that you have a headset, and then you explored actual scale. Okay, so these are the planets. And stars are also planets, but they're this big and this is that big, this is the distances. This is something that's so much easier to understand, and there are so many subjects at school and that at community colleges that we teach that is impossible to see. Or it's too expensive. Even the field trip to a nuclear plant is close to impossible. But if you have a digital twin of the nuclear plant that you can explore, it might engage students who picked nuclear physics to study so much more engaged and understand. So, it'll be just so much easier to teach that. But now, the microphone goes to Jason.

Jason: Before I do my intro, lemme just comment a little bit. I'll start with the why, and then I'll come back to who I am. Which is to your point, Ken, what is it about an AI that is different than a human and humans are different than AI that will never ever change? And to me, the answer is experience. We will always experience that awe and wonder, and have that human experience. Our interaction, our human touch as well that's in a collaborative classroom is way better than online in my opinion. But if experience is the goal, then with XR, with 3D, with augmented reality, we can see and understand and build mental models that are very different than hearing a bunch of, reading a bunch of texts or even hearing texts coming out of an OpenAI. Even when it generates an image or a video, it's still not giving us that deep, full human experience that a binaural visualization floating in front of you does. So, that's the why spatial computing, I think is interesting and why it's so much more than just AI on its own, and so much more impactful.

Dominic: Cool. So yeah, Jason. Jason is also doing a lot of very cool. A long time ago, I remember first time when I met Jason was in AWE, is here. And Jason was demonstrate, using HoloLens to show Charlie Fink, right? How amazing that you can visualize the data. So, Jason today brought the new toy, XREAL. Yeah, so yeah, we are going to play some interesting experiment that Flow Immersive is, or heavy.

Jason: So, not an experiment, this is live. This is the company that I've founded, it's called Flow Immersive. We've been working on this for nine years with half dozen engineers. And my one statement I say is, what does it feel like to float your data over the conference room table, and all be able to stand around and interact with it and have a great conversation, have the best data conversation you've ever seen? And that really is what a PowerPoint should be. It should be a conversation starter. It should be a human multi-user interaction, where people can answer their questions, and dive, and build these great mental models. So, I firmly believe that this is the way we will all experience our data, our financial data. Students can understand impacts of climate. Or however else. And I have some examples of high school students doing that around the world.

And then in addition, you really wanna have a sense of mastering control over this data, over your environment. Think about Iron Man, he can ask Jarvis to build him a new element. Well, in this case with AI... You can stop it, it's going on to some other random video there.

Dominic: Oh, okay, okay.

Jason: Use an AI to just speak to your data. And the most common thing is it will write the Python code that reprocess the dataset and throws it back into 3D space. It's very agentic. You can ask it to do five things at once, and it'll just go through them all and figure it out. And it can be very simple. Filter to show me the most performing stock. Or it can be very complex. Run a random forest regression on this pharmaceutical dataset to figure out the impact different columns are having on time to eye-opening after anesthesiology kind of dataset, after see people wake up after surgery and in time.

So, our overall purpose and why I'm here is, I am actually really obsessed with education. I took two years outta my high tech career and started a K-eight charter Montessori school. It opened with 120 students and lasted for 15 years, and COVID killed it. If I had still been there, I'd probably could've been able to keep it alive. But with Montessori, the thing that really appealed to me is this sensorial experience. You take the, a cube of maybe 10 by 10, think of 10 by 10 little cubes next to each other. Take this cube, and you turn it over and feel it and experience it, and suddenly you have a totally different experience of what it means to cube something or a cube root. Now, oh it's a cube root is exactly what relationship to this cube. And it works all the way up to algebra, these manipulatives. Even the kindergartners were used to, like the sandpaper letters where they trace out the letters, and that experience, yes it's sensorial, but it also activates your 3D brain in a really wonderful way.

And we have 3D brains, believe it or not. We've forgotten about it with all these flat screens, and even books, and even cave walls. But we build our mental models to understand the world in 3D. Think about a mammal like a rat finding its way through a maze. It knows where, how to get around because it's so innate into the way our brains work. And when you build this kind of, when you have this kind of visualization, it goes through your hippocampus. We can go into brain science forever, I love this stuff. I'm not an expert, but I love this stuff. It goes through your hippocampus and goes into your longer term memory. So, I have showed people things in glasses and in headsets, and years later come back and I've asked them, do you remember what you saw? And they can describe it to me in detail. That will never happen with a PowerPoint deck. PowerPoint violates the way your brain works, all these things disappearing. Every time you go to a new slide, your brain doesn't know how to organize it. So, using this kind of tool to enhance both the way we use AI, but also to enhance really building those good mental models for students, I think is really exciting.

Inga: And just, I have some research data on what you just mentioned. So, one of our users, Imperial College London in UK, they did a research. So, they ask students if you have to compare 2D and 3D, what do you think is more complicated? And like, oh 2D is so much easier than 3D. So, as soon as they think 3D, they think about complexity, they think about very high entrance level.

And so, the reason for that is that even though, again, as Jason just said, our brain is 3D, what is more important the world is 3D. Everything is 3D and spatial. Why 2D is easier? Because they think immediately about 3D tools on a flat 2D screen. Which literally sucks. Because if you think of Blender, or Maya, or even game engines, Unity, Unreal, whatever, they are 3D tools but on a flat screen tool. And then this technology is so visible. I mean, it's not invisible at all because it's very heavy UI. And it's like that's why a lot of students during that survey they mentioned, no, we go 2D design career. But then 2D design career is limited to web app design. Because how can you redesign the world. Oh, you have to learn very complex 3D tools with a very, very steep learning curve that a lot of creative people never actually choose.

And that's why I was also shocked when, then Chanel was mentioning that they're still hiring fashion designers who just use a pen and a paper. They're never using 3D flat screen tools, but 2D tools is not enough. So, that's why they're still drawing everything on just a piece of paper. So, XR and virtual reality headset making this interaction with 3D truly invisible, because this is just like you in real world. If you want to grab a chair and move it, you just grab a chair and move it. You don't have to say click, select a chair, then move. It's not about clicking QI, you just literally behave like you do. It's very behavioral, very experiential type of thinking and designing and building.

And that's why it's so unfair when a lot of students, they don't go for 3D career even though we do believe that 3D is gonna outpace 2D. Because again, the world is 3D, everything is 3D. Because they immediately think about all the complexity of the UI user interfaces of the 3D things on a flat study screen. So, that's why I really want this, to see how this is changing. And 3D immersive tools help to understand that 3D can be very accessible. What is more important, it's a next level of collaboration. Because it's not like you see a mouse of someone on the same screen. You actually see a person or an avatar, like digital representation of the person. It's a very high sense of presence, which really encourage them to collaborate.

And another research, and I stop then, was actually done by Stanford. They were saying that the most talkative and vocal students in the classroom, in VR, people who never say a word, who seems to be like not engaged in the conversation, when they're behind the avatar and when they are given all those tools, they become so creative and so opinionated. And that's also helped them to unlock the potential of those student that usually when we just see each other are not engaging that much into conversation. Yeah, so.

Dominic: The technology becoming invisible because it's the way humans brains and hands work.

Inga: Yeah, yeah.

Dominic: So, it becomes invisible.

Inga: Yeah.

Dominic: So, that's why we... I know our topic is called behind the scenes, the rise of invisible tech. Through spatial, through XR, through our brand wiring, all the UI start become dissolved, and AI really helps us to, yeah, automate. Like Orimba said that, AWE founder said that XR is the interface of AI. So, whatever you wanna visualize in AI, right, that's XR. So, that's why we brought up the spatial AI. Okay, so I think we are at the time, and all our speakers are pretty much talk a lot about spatial AI and also how it apply education. Now, we can go to our Q&A session. I know a lot of you might have a lot of questions. So, yeah.

Audience Question: Hi, thank you. Because I'm coming to the same thing as you, about how spatial education could enhance my classroom curriculum. This a personal question. I am planning on building a lecture segment in my fall semester, which I look forward to show for the entire district. So, my students are going to expand on different forms of energy. And I learned about so, I'm busy. Would you partner with me to make it a spatial presentation product that we can show at the?

Inga: I say a hundred percent yes. And by the way, it was the World Bank that they were doing similar kind of project. Communicating the climate change and stuff. And doing that spatially, they had so much better understanding and they were able to finally push for some decisions to be made. Because when you just look at slides and data, you just look at slides and data. But when you experience the problem, that's when actually empathy comes, when people understand the problem. But Jason, you were eager to reply, answer this question, right?

Jason: Yeah, we've done a number of climate related projects with climate data for the World Bank and the UN. And even had the pleasure of being part of the UN general assembly two years in a row. So, seeing the data on climate, people say it's depressing. But when you have data sets like that, that are really exchanging extremely fast, it is very dramatic. And we do have a school in China, the International School of Xingjiang. It's an international baccalaureate school. And they have had their students build climate presentations, multi-step flows, we call our things flows. The company was Flow Immersive if I didn't mention that. And those presentations, they start with a global view and then they bring it to what's actually happening in their city or their community. And then put together either what we call avatar stories, they record themselves presenting, or they create a video. And very engaging process for students to make it real and feel like they can communicate to the world.

Dominic: Yeah. Hila, can you help? Yeah, cool, awesome. Thank you.

Hila: I would like to mention something that many people here may not be aware of, but something that I have observed with kind of being a spatial evangelist going around and showing people like, please, please check this out. Something that I did not expect that I have seen in all of this is that scientists tend to be the people that are the most vulnerable. Because in the arts it's like, yeah, we visualize stuff all the time. It's not that big a deal. But when you get a scientist who has all of these abstract ideas but not a lot of spatial thinking in a visual format, when you show it to them visually, every single one of them has turned into a small child. And it's so wonderful to watch that enthusiasm and that connection, because it's something that they've been so focused on data, they've been so focused on numbers that they haven't even realized there's this whole world of visualization out there as well.

Inga: I mean, a hundred percent. And as we say in VR, I mean it's so hard to explain VR. And by VR, I mean any variable, when it's spatial and augmented. That you can forever say that the pizza is so delicious, but until you try this pizza, you don't believe that. But one exact example that you can always win an argument if you communicate that spatially. There was a student, I don't remember the name of the university, and his sister had the lupus disease. And he had his vision to just, okay, there should be some research, but because there is not that much going on. And he built a PowerPoint presentation, he was pitching at every forum but nothing was happening. And then he built a, actually a 3D spatial presentation of how much suffering people with lupus have and stuff. And then he presented it to Johnson and Johnson & Johnson. And Johnson & Johnson then decided to give him funding. He started his company. So, it's all about winning an argument because you can really explain something that is so hard, just like, okay, even if you watch that. But when you are inside, and you're immersed, and you kind of transform to be part of that thing. Same with climate change. And that's very, very powerful and absolutely about science. In science it's so hard to explain things for students to understand, and to make them engaged. And in VR, it's just so much more straightforward.

Ken: I mean, I have the privilege sitting in the middle, I have more access to this microphone. I read a story about that. I mean, I don't know, I can keep moving it. I will say, I have a very powerful anecdote about data. I was served as a director of data science at the Michael J. Fox Foundation. And I was responsible for the data on the largest observational study on Parkinson's disease patients. 1500 patients, where we track their blood samples, urine samples, spinal tap fluid, cerebral spinal fluid, MRIs and a physical on a quarterly basis for eight years. And I was also responsible for normalizing all the other historical seminal clinical trials on Parkinson's disease to this data. And then I collaborated with a professor from Stanford, who created this startup called Ayasdi. And his startup would take data and make it visual, and create a network, 3D network diagrams of them. And he said, "Why don't you give it a try?"

So, I worked with him, we developed this 3D model of all the genes associated with different symptoms of the disease. And there was an outlier. This one gene that stuck out, way out on the side of this 3D model. We just were like, what the heck is that? And it turned out to be this gene, according to the model, that was associated with cognitive decline. And it only took a week to do. So, I showed it to all my PhD peers at the foundation. They were like, "Oh yeah, whatever." They just dismissed it. A year later, both from Stanford and Mount Sinai published papers on the fact that this gene that came up on our three dimensional data representation was indeed associated with cognitive decline across Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's. It's called EPO4. So, from that day on, anytime I found something in the dataset through 3D model, people would now pay attention. But it's just this amazing, amazing way to take a look at outliers that you cannot see through air bars on a Gantt chart. So, that's what I would have to share with you. It's you can spot things that could be just revolutionary if you just could pay attention to the outliers in your data. Don't throw them out.

Dominic: Cool. Any questions? Please.

Audience Question: I have a question about this. Part of this barrier, I think first of all. So, the cell but you don't have the cell. But the barriers to adoption are, one, there's not a lot of great content left. And two, the content that's out there is not hardware agnostic. So, we were all buying pole lenses five or 10 years ago. And guess what? And now, we're all like, oh is it gonna MediQuest, is it gonna be Oculus, is it gonna be your new compact product? And it's frustrating and it makes it hard for us to adopt. So, where are we going in terms of development of high level immersatory concepts? And two, are we going the direction of something that is more hardware agnostic or at least coming down to a type of world of being hardware manufacturers?

Inga: I can start, and then Jason. I'm sorry, this is just the the flow. So, you're absolutely right. So, that's a huge barrier, especially when you invest in hardware, Magic Leap or HoloLens, and they discontinue. It's just too expensive and waste of your energy and time. And unfortunately you're right, because it's a lot of independent software vendors that are building products for high schools and colleges. And they're all kind of can be just one platform, just support. Because it's also super expensive for them to be cross-platform, right?

Now, with Android XR, as you mentioned, upcoming headset Moohan, it's just the start of the new era I would say. Because I mean they have nine devices in the pipeline, but the good news it's still Android XR, which makes us developers build once and deploy everywhere. So, we are the launch app for Moohan that is coming on October, that's probably confidential, that is coming soon. And then like the next generation of this class is coming next year. And then for us it'll be not one click but close to one click to deploy.

I also believe that definitely Quest and Meta is a good solution for education just because of the cost. It's so cheap, and they even give this device management system I believe for free or super, super cheap. Probably not. But they were, like some universities were moving from other MDM systems to Meta Horizon, Enterprise, whatever. It's just like incomparably accessible pricing wise.

Talking about Shapes, we are cross platforms so it doesn't matter if you have a Picker device, you have Quest, you have upcoming Samsung headset, even Magic Leap if you still have them via cross platform, meaning that you can have different devices but you still can all join the same shared space. And you as a teacher for example, we do have that. Actually it's real example. We have a professor who is so passionate about XR, but he just can't wear a headset for more than 20 minutes. That's happens to people, even comfortable headset. So, you can join via web browser, but you still are, it's like truly real time cross-platform collaboration. And I hear you. Even though it's very expensive for us to support that. Not just that you can use us from Picker, but that you can be all on different devices and still meet in a shared space and build together. So, to have absolutely unified cross platform, we go for it. Exactly because we, all the time we see that university has Picker devices because there were some grant program and they receive them for free. And then they have Meta devices. And then there was like, now Samsung probably is gonna be a very sophisticated productivity hazard. It's just very comfortable. It doesn't sit on your face, and it's like the resolution is much better than on Quest Three. But it's not that great like Apple Vision Pro, but Apple Vision Pro is probably not affordable by university. Too expensive, and we don't expect it to become significantly cheaper.

So, if just you need a recommendation, I would still go for Quest, it the best quality for pricing. It's just so cheap. And upcoming Meta Connect is next week, so Quest Four. Anyway, so that's incredible. I know that Picker is very popular in Europe, so we see in UK and European countries a lot of Picker devices. Coming to mixed reality, if you're building for the real world, I would still go for Quest. It's just much better mixed reality because it's about depth, machine learning, understanding it's just more advanced from that perspective. Even though we work with both Picker and Meta device, just mixed reality is better how they render. And yeah, so, but I understand your pain. I mean, even though we are keep talking about interoperability for universities and for everyone, we are far from that. We are really far from that. And that's why we also can say there is no destruction in VR because students can't really easily go from one app to another app. They can't open the browser in a headset and go play chess or even something, poker VR. Right, so that's good news, but it's gonna change with Android XR. I think the whole thing that it's very similar to how you use computers. So, it's upgrading system that combines different apps, and you can easily switch between them. But we just have the first device coming Q4. So yeah.

Hila: And if I may chime in on the content question. The California chancellor's office has been very supportive of us finding ways to empower people to create their own virtual headsets. That's one of the things that Shapes XR, is really excellent about. But we literally teach students to build these things with video game design. And there is such a need in education for this content and for this content to be open educational resources so that every college everywhere in California will have free access to it, as well as free access to the ability to build content for themselves. And that's one of the initiatives that hasn't quite fully the cause, but is very much aligned with the vision 2030 in terms of empowering people to be able to create the content. Because that's the only way we're gonna get enough content for everybody to be able to, to be equal from this. Because equity is such a big part of it. It shouldn't just be... We were able to get an Apple Vision Pro. How many colleges have access to an Apple Vision Pro? We need to be able to make sure that every college have access.

Jason: So, in terms of content creation, I think AI is gonna be a huge help across the board. ShapesXR is all about personal content creation. And at Flow Immersive it's a no-code authoring tool to enable anybody to create content. And the teachers who are using it build their own curriculum, upload their own data set, and work with it. In terms of accessibility. So I, this is in XREAL. It's not my company, my company does the software for the data visualization. But I would argue that this is very accessible compared to a larger headset. I can see all of you very clearly. It's a little bit of sunglass material. In the future they're gonna be even more clear and all day every day. And glasses are just, it's a hard technology that we're comfortable having on, having within an inch of our eyeballs. And that's not true of a big headset. A big headset kind of feels inhumane compared to a pair of glasses. So, as these start to hit the market, and I would predict there's gonna be a half dozen of these in the next six months, and maybe a dozen in the next 12 months. Chinese companies are all over this. As well as we have huge announcements and examples from Meta. Apple's not announcing, but we know that they're working on it. Tim Cook has certainly talked about it. Qualcomm, Samsung, Google. Six of the biggest corporations in the world are spending billions to bring this to a way that would be much more accessible. And I think feels like a huge sea change in my business, a huge sea change from the big headsets.

Dominic: Yeah. And also for this stage that I'm faculty founder, me and two of my students, one of is a Kenyatta student, the other one is my design lab student. Three of us, we are building for faculties. And also we, I'm learning React, so I'm learning how to set up a AI authoring tools. So yeah, so I can show you the demo. So, if you're interested, right now we are working with Professor Par to turn her biology v biology curriculum into a VR experience. And later on, we will have another two project which is AI, how to learn AI in VR. The other one is engineering. Yeah, so yeah, if you're interested we can talk, and then I can show you AI authoring tools. Yeah. Cool, any other questions?

Audience: I'll also mention that anybody who wants to try this, there's enough. There's a few enough people in here that in a few minutes we could just make sure that everyone sees what it looks like. So, find me after this.

Dominic: And by the way, Meta Connect is next week. Rumor has said that, yeah, Robin, Inga, Jason, are you going?

Audience: Yeah, I'm double booked.

Dominic: Double booked. Too busy. Yeah, a lot of us we will go to Meta Connect. Rumor has said that they are going to release SDK for RayBan. Is that true?

Audience: Rumors.

Dominic: Rumors. Yeah, rumors has said. So, I'm very excited, 'cause imagine if we can have a lightweight and affordable. I mean, it's $300, it's still a little bit expensive. But to compare with the Apple Vision Pro, yeah. So, I think this, 'cause if they can release the SDK, more people can develop. Yeah, okay, cool. Any other questions?

Audience: Official request from Asians. I have the Meta and the Raybans, and this does not go.

Dominic: Oh, you need to go to Amazon and buy the nose.

Audience: I bought the pack.

Dominic: Oh yeah, that's the same question for me. Asian girl, we have a very small nose. They are not designed for Asian girl.

Audience: Get like the nose pack that goes in, so that one can have.

Inga: Just want to make sure that RayBan are smart glasses. Not really like AR glasses, but anyway still cool.

Audience: But their upcoming one-

Inga: The line will be for all.

Audience: The line eventually.

Inga: Just so people don't go and buy it expecting that they do sick stuff, AR glasses. They're not. Just cool.

Audience: 2026.

Inga: Yeah.

Dominic: Cool, any other questions? Please.

Audience Question: Curious from the panelists. What's the coolest education content that you guys have seen recently? That just blew you away. Because you see a lot, you talked about a number of examples of things that you've done. So, what's on the horizon? That wow, when they nail that and it's also universally available, it'll transform education.

Inga: That's a beautiful, great question. I mean, my answer is that I have not seen anything that blew my mind away. But also because I'm in this industry for so long that I just still believe we can do much better. I know that Prisms, the company that is doing modules for mathematics is just doing great from revenue perspective. Which tells me that probably the content is good enough. But it's for high schools, I think right now. About maths. Then anything related to presentation, communication skills, and stuff like that, like body swaps. And they're giving this product away for free, so they are doing some. But again, it's avatars and probably AI enabled communication skills, when students can really upgrade how they present, how the ideas and stuff like that. I mean, from 115 universities using ShapesXR, they all build their own lessons, their own content. And something that really blew my mind away is Nebraska University Medical Center. So, the students under the semester project, they actually helped to plan the actual hospital, and surgeon room, and usability of that one. And now it's a commercial project. So, but coming to that, I'm probably not exposed that much. I know that just, yeah, Prisms and body swaps. Anything else?

Jason: Anything that's really taking advantage of AI to give students creative ability and a sense of mastering control is what I'm excited about at the moment.

Dominic: Yeah, as far as I know, I know "VRChat." I know "VRChat" for you guys might be, oh that's like a kind of like for kids or for teenagers to hang out. But I would say that the immersiveness and openness is very, very creative. And I know a lot of teachers, or a lot of live performers, they put their work on "VRChat." And it's considered to be the metaverse, even though Meta is trying to take that name. But the actual one is "VRChat." And I can tell you how immersive it is. One time I was hanging around in "VRChat," and I went to a room and I need to pick my character, and I pick a tiny chicken in the desert of like, it's very, very interesting. And I was jumping and I saw everything was oversized. It's fun. Suddenly there's a giant Godzilla shows up and look at me, and grab me into the hand. And look at me and trying to snap me. And I was so scared. And I keep telling myself it's fake, it's fake. I'm not afraid, it's "VRChat." But it is just so real, so scared, I feel my life being threatened. So, I immediately take off my headset. And I was still scared and scared of returning a room. I think "VRChat" really, it allows people to build stuff. 'Cause I actually purchased there a creator program, a $9 dollar and then per month. And then you get access to all their creator tools. They used Udon. Like a year ago or two years ago, they used a Unity Udon. I mean, I happened to know how to do that. So, I create a room very quickly within one day, and put all the interesting... It's just Unity, so I make a very interesting presentation room, or a bar or something. So, I think if, yeah, I mean "VRChat" is-

Inga: I just noticed that "VRChat" for some reason is blocked in many universities. They don't have access to that one. Just if you can't find it, probably you have to talk to your IT department because it's very gaming, it's not secure. Lots of adult people around that can offend students.

Audience: It's like Discord.

Inga: That can offend the students, because it's thousands of people around. But if you have, so that's to check. And I actually recall another tool, Zoe Immersive. If you are into building games, interactive games. So that's also, that is going after education. So yeah.

Dominic: Yeah, and I think like Engage XR, if you wanna be very, very business like, hanging out, or like a professional hanging out, or like a lecturing, I went to Engage XR for some XR woman events and educators in VR events. I think they create a lot of interesting, engaging, a virtual presentation there. And yeah, I think it's very, very interesting to present and meet people in virtual world.

Yeah, I mean, I think all the advanced tools are pretty much, right now I know we are, I remember people ask me, oh what's the best practice for XR? And I said that if the headset is not defined yet, 'cause right now we know there will be some lightweight glass showing up. If the device is not being defined, and the software is living on top of the device, and the UX UI is living on top of the software, right? So, right now this is moving very fast. So, I think it's still evolving. So yeah, we can see more. For example, like Orion. We saw Orion you can pretty much use a AI. So for example, like the demo is that you wear Orion and you look around. And there are a lot of food, and there will be a lot of nutrition show up using computer vision. So, I think technology is there, it depends on how educators to pull everything together and make your-

Inga: Let's be honest, Orion is five years from now. It's not available today, so.

Dominic: But technology is available today, just like, yeah, not Orion.

Inga: Not Orion.

Dominic: Yeah, I mean XREAL, right? XREAL considered to be.

Jason: Today's one. The difference is this is not designed to be an all day everywhere, all day wearable. Where Orion and this next generation, I think it's about two years out, not five, but there will be all day-

Inga: Even worse, the city of Meta is five years from now. I mean, I hope it comes sooner.

Jason: Meta is not the fastest company on the planet.

Inga: No. Yeah, Orion is from-

Hila: But also, the great thing is there will be many steps, like the Apple Vision Pro.

Jason: A hundred percent.

Hila: Which is the first of its sort. It was too expensive, too big, too heavy. But it was the first step, and there will be more iterations, and these iterations will come faster and faster.

Hila: So, having some sort of thing that you can translate across all of these different devices is really important.

Dominic: Yeah. Cool. Any other questions? Come on up and try it. And if I want you to take anything with you, so I mean inspire your students, 3D is not complicated anymore. 3D in a spatial device, and this device exists today. And they're as cheap as $300, $500. It's possible. And 3D can be so much more accessible than even 2D. But definitely 3D is much more powerful for any real world related, or anything from entertainment gaming, or any industry design and stuff like that. So, yeah. Cool, yeah. Thank you so much for joining our panel. If you have any questions, feel free to go forward, and we will answer your question. Thank you so much.

Inga: Thank you.
