Moderator: Okay. Thank you all for being here, and thanks for your patience as we get set up. We're gonna be doing a little bit of musical laptops this morning, but I think we've got all the technology pieces settled, so it's great to see so many of you here for this.

We've got two great panelists with us here today, so I'll do full introductions in a minute. But Juliet Rothenberg, who's the product director of Earth & Resilience AI at Google, and Gaurav Khanna, AI executive at Cisco Systems. And then I'm Carla Grande. I am at the California Community College Chancellor's Office. I'm the chancellor's senior advisor on climate and the lead climate fellow.

And so this is an exciting panel, like, I'm really excited to hear from them. But one of the conversations that we have a lot within the chancellor's office, and as we're talking to colleges about the climate change work and the AI work is how do you reconcile those two things? So this comes up a lot with students, it comes up a lot with our climate team, it's come up with our board of governors asking us, like, "How can you have these two areas of focus that seem like they're in competition with each other?"

And so just to give you a little bit, you've heard a lot about the AI work that we're doing at the chancellor's office, and we've heard a lot of exciting opportunities that AI provides. But I wanna just share a little bit about the climate work that we're doing before I turn it over. So, under Vision 2030, the 116 California Community Colleges have been asked to lead the way in climate action. And so trying to take a holistic approach to that, looking at opportunities for community engagement, workforce development, facilities and operations, so minimizing our greenhouse gas emissions from our campuses and also integrating climate action into the curriculum.

So the two speakers who we're gonna hear from today are gonna talk with us about kind of two sides of that, the climate AI paradox, so both potential solutions that AI can bring to climate challenges and also some of the energy consumption issues that we're dealing with. And I think the speaker this morning really set us up nicely for that. So they're gonna share a little bit about their work, and then I've got some questions for them, but I also want to make sure that we save time for audience questions. So please, as they're talking, think about what questions you have, because I will give you all an opportunity to ask questions as we go. So without further ado, I will start with Juliet.

So Juliet is a product director of Earth & Resilience AI at Google, where her teams lead over 20 projects focused on applying AI to enable a more resilient earth. Her team's work was the sole basis for Google being awarded Fast Company's World Changing Company of the Year in 2024. Juliet has focused on energy, transportation, and resilience for the past 20 years and has worked in AI at Alphabet for the past eight. Juliet previously led the enterprise PM team at DeepMind across industrial, efficiency, renewables, language, and document AI. Before DeepMind, Juliet had the in-car and app experiences at Waymo, and she led the cross-company launch of Waymo's user-facing service.

So I am going to start off with Juliet and ask her, please share with us, in your perspective, AI's potential for solving some of these environmental issues and helping to save our planet.

Juliet: Thank you very much, Carla, and thank you everyone for being here. It's an honor for me to be here at a personal level as well.

My mom has spent 20 years working in the community college industry, and it's something that means a ton to me to be able to give back in this way. So, sorry, sometimes I get sentimental when I think about where I've come from and where I get to be now.

But let's talk about what we get to do, right? And what can we do with AI and solutions in this space?

We're lucky to have a whole variety of different areas. And Carla, when you asked me to speak initially, I thought I can give an overview of a number of them and then we can dig into any that anyone has questions around. But I just wanna give a flavor of the type of problems that AI can solve. So we'll start out with talking about solutions in transportation and energy.

How many of you like stop-and-go traffic? Nobody, right? Turns out the climate doesn't like stop-and-go traffic either. Pollution at intersections is 29 times higher than on open roads, and over half of that comes from vehicles accelerating after they stop. And so what our Project Greenlight team has been doing is using Google Maps driving trends together with AI to help traffic engineers make small changes to traffic lights, think, take a few seconds off of the quote unquote, "green time" from this direction and give a few more seconds to this direction, or coordinate this one traffic light with another traffic light.

And what we've seen is that traffic engineers are able to change an intersection in a matter of minutes, and we've seen up to 30% reduction in stop-and-go traffic, up to 10% reduction in emissions. We're now live in over 20 cities around the world, including Boston, my hometown of Seattle, Rio de Janeiro, Jakarta, Indonesia, Bangalore, a whole variety of cities where we're seeing this capability generalize and expand really quickly.

I've been to a number of different traffic engineering centers around the world. They're really fun to visit, by the way. They have a lot of screens up everywhere. And traffic engineers try to get to every traffic light in their city every five years to retime it, because their cities and their worlds are changing. You ask them whether they do that or not, and they say, "No, of course I don't. I don't have time. I can't get to all of these intersections." And so AI is really able to help accelerate their ability to get their work done to help us move in a more sustainable way around cities.

And I think that this really shows the power of AI, right? I mean, I'm sure we've all noticed just how quickly AI has shifted, and with the beauty of AI's speed and scale is that you can then get speed and scale across other industries and other infrastructure where we need that for sustainability solutions. And so Greenlight is one example of that.

How many of you're familiar with airplane contrails? Has anybody heard of this as a sustainability and a climate solution? Yes, okay, that makes me very happy to hear, because previously, prior to our team working on this, basically no one would've raised their hand in a room like this. And now we have a few, so I hope after this, all of you will be able to raise your hand with what contrails are.

But they're those little wispy clouds behind planes. They're called a contrail. And the thing that's interesting about contrails is they're responsible for over 1/3 of aviation's warming impact. Usually you think of fuel, right? But contrails are actually really significantly warming. They come from cirrus clouds. If any of you are outdoorsy and you like to camp, you know that cloudy nights are warmer than cool nights, or clear nights. The way that contrails work is very similar. They trap heat into the Earth's atmosphere at night.

And we've used AI to predict where contrails will form and had pilots in live flights adjust the altitude of their flight just like they do for turbulence, like you've probably seen, and they've reduced contrails by over 50%. We've done this with a number of flights with American Airlines. We're now working with EU air traffic control actually, where over a significant amount of airspace in Europe, they're actually automatically adjusting the altitude of flights.

And what's so exciting about this is for those of you who follow sustainable aviation, right, the other solutions in sustainability and aviation look like electric planes, hydrogen planes, biofuels. We need those solutions too. But those solutions are gonna take decades to scale. And the VP of sustainability for American Airlines went on national TV and said that this is something that can scale across the industry in two to five years.

And so that's the power that you can bring of AI, is to really transform industries at a speed and scale that we have not seen through other solutions to date. And we desperately need this speed, right? I think none of us in this room probably need to be convinced that we have to act very quickly from a sustainability standpoint.

Oh, this is just a picture of how it works. These are contrails on the left, you can see contrail from the ground in a photo. On the right, you can see them in satellite imagery. And so we trained an AI model to use satellite imagery to be able to detect contrails. And then we used AI as well, this model coupled with weather data to predict where contrails will form. And so that formed the basis of our work.

I drove here today and was a few minutes late. Thank you for your patience. Who else drove here today? Yes? Who used Google Maps? Yeah? Did you notice the green leaf in Google Maps when you were driving? Did you know before what it was? Yeah, a couple dots. Great. This is a great room.

So it's our fuel-efficient routing feature. So we share through Google Maps the most fuel-efficient route in cases where it isn't already the fastest, where the time is, you know, maybe just a little bit longer, 30 seconds longer, a couple of minutes longer, something like that. And we've seen that this has been able to scale up really beautifully globally. So we're now sharing this with all Google Maps users around the world. You can go into settings and you can turn it off if you like, but the majority of users really appreciate it. And we see that we're able to save megatons of CO2 through this work each year. And so it's really able to drive a significant impact.

Another example, many of you may have solar. Solars are a great solution in California, but if you have solar, I imagine many of you like the sustainability benefits of it, but most people decide to go solar based on cost. And so Google is an information company and we look to say, "Great, can we provide information so that people can make a well-rounded decision?" And we've used AI models to help model out what the cost savings can be for hundreds of millions of buildings worldwide if they go solar.

And what we've seen is that this significantly reduces the time for a someone who's selling solar to convert someone into a purchaser. And it reduces their cost of customer acquisition. So we can actually make it cheaper for people to go solar by providing better information in this way. This is used by a very large percentage of solar installers in the U.S. and increasingly around the world to help build more sustainable solutions.

So, that's kind of on the sustainability side. Let's talk a bit more about resilience, because unfortunately, I'm sure many of you have been affected by the climate events that we're already seeing.

If you lived in the Bay Area in 2020, I'm sure you remember when the skies were red from wildfires, and we're seeing an increasing number of disasters strike. This has actually been a pretty good year, surprisingly, but of course, you know, we had the flash floods in Texas, right? And we had the fires in LA. Even with that, it's actually been a better than average year. My team manages the crisis events that get sent out to Google users. We send out millions of those every day. And so we monitor around the world disasters and are able to help provide information to people who are in harm's way. And we use AI models as a key part of providing this information.

And
