Moderator: So our panelists, and I put 'em in alphabetical order. Dr. Kathy Bakhit.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: Hi, everyone.

Moderator: She is the Vice President of Academic Affairs at Antelope Valley College, and she has over 30 years of experience in education, beginning from an ESL student. She got personal insight into how it feels to go through the entire system. And now she's the VP of AA at Antelope Valley College.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: Thank you.

Moderator: And she holds a doctorate in educational leadership and a background in economics, facilitating efforts at Antelope Valley College to just allow us to do amazing work in AI. Sorry, I've got a little asthma going.

Moderator: Chesa Caparas.

Chesa Caparas: Hi, everyone.

Moderator: Hi.

Chesa Caparas: We didn't follow instructions.

Moderator: And she is a public speaker and professor of English and ethics studies at De Anza, where she teaches the impact of API learning community and leads faculty development on AI and education. She's a Fulbright Scholar, alumni ambassador, and has served as a California Learning Lab AI first, I'm gonna say this wrong. AI first. Yes. And which is a faculty innovator in residence.

Moderator: And Dr. Sarah Harmon.

Moderator: She is the OER and ZTC project manager and an adjunct professor of linguistics at Cañada College. It's the one with the little squiggly line over the N. Okay.

Moderator: And of course you had to add that. What is that called?

Dr. Sarah Harmon: Not Canada.

Moderator: What is that officially called?

Dr. Sarah Harmon: Tilde.

Moderator: That one. Over 25 years experience of teaching. She's been a leader in expanding zero and low-cost burden-free course materials, managing major ZTC grants, authoring textbooks. Amazing. She explores the intersection of OER and AI. And she's part of the new CCC Chancellor's Office AI change maker.

Moderator: And we have Dr. Michelle Fischthal, and she's a Vice Chancellor of Institutional Innovation and Effectiveness at San Diego Community College in that district, serving nearly 80,000 students.

Panelist: I know, right?

Moderator: She leads these district planning, research and technology and integration with a focus on AI and extended reality. This is cool.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: It is.

Moderator: She has structured the district's multi-college AI initiative and she co-leads the Equity AI Alliance with San Diego State University, SDSU, and UC San Diego, and serves on many boards. That's a lot of boards. And she's known for her wonderful collaboration, helping higher educators and institutions thoughtfully embrace emerging technologies.

Moderator: Round of applause for our board. All right, so, these are our panelists. So let's start with our first question. Is that cool?

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: Sure. Go for it.

Moderator: And so in this one we're asking, please share specific examples of how your district area is supporting learning and teaching with respect to AI. Who wants to go?

Panelist: Any order.

Moderator: You.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: Me?

Moderator: I'm the going director.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: They say me. So examples how our district is supporting learning and teaching with respect to AI.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: So my division has been in existence for two and a half years. It was very intentionally created to have an executive on the chancellor's cabinet around both emerging technology but also research and planning, and strategic planning as well as accreditation. And so two months, I started my job in February of 2023. The division started in 2023 February, just a few months after AI. And the first thing that I did was put out a survey to see where folks were in terms of emerging technology. And obviously AI came up as something that we had to address immediately.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: So I'm going to skip two years. I'll talk about that hopefully a little bit later. But in terms of supporting AI, and you may have heard Alison Gurganus at the end of yesterday, she and I worked together. It's really been all about AI literacy. I knew straight away that number one, we needed to start with faculty, and two, that I needed support of faculty to support faculty in terms of AI literacy. That as a vice chancellor going out and doing AI literacy training would probably not go over very well.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: So we really started out trying to build an infrastructure to support faculty to ultimately support our students. And we've done a lot of work since then, but I'm going to leave it to lots of workshops. We started out with lots of workshops. We've migrated into creating spaces for faculty to talk together with just implementing communities of inquiry and practice discipline specific. We recognized that that was an important space to go.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: And then you heard in my bio this AI Equity Alliance with San Diego State University and UC San Diego. And that's part of the AI Challenge grant. And that's very explicitly to also, there's a piece of that that will bring in both microcredentials, AI microcredentials for students as well as faculty and staff, as well as what we're calling our innovation hub, which is to bring faculty again together to have conversations. So we've been building for two and a half years now, and it feels like we're finally getting some motion, but it's all about what can we be doing to support everyone in our institution and how can we be leveraging resources to do that. So I'll stop there and hand it to someone else.

Chesa Caparas: Oh, sure. So I'm in the Foothill De Anza district, so you've probably seen our name plastered all over all this stuff. So you know how on one level, how the district is supporting AI work, is this better? Is this better? Okay, cool.

Chesa Caparas: And so maybe just to give a little bit of background, we do a lot of AI professional development but first at the college level and then at the district level supported by our Office of Professional Development. But I wanna speak also from a personal note, because one of the ways that professional development is supported is I am fortunate enough that I had a sabbatical. And so for my sabbatical project, I did the Fulbright research on disinformation during a very contentious election season in the Philippines, which as you can see probably relates to some of the things we're experiencing in the United States right now. And as soon as I came back in 2022 ChatGPT dropped.

Chesa Caparas: And so my whole sabbatical project was about AI literacy and how do we use it to teach about how to engage civically, how to spot disinformation. And so that's sort of been some of the philosophy behind the professional development. And through leading those, I have been able to grow, or sorry, connect with this amazing network of things that are happening both at De Anza and Foothill, such as the Emerging Technologies Institute and this AI learning community that is run at Foothill.

Chesa Caparas: Because what I've really noticed is anytime that we're talking about these emerging technologies, we really have to center human relationships. And that's part of the title of this panel is how do we get humans to talk to each other about the ways that these technologies are impacting us. So, working with online ed office and seeing how it's impacting faculty and talk to our classified professionals about how is this really impacting your work? I feel like that's sort of the important work that the district and some of the areas that I've mentioned have been leaning into.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: So, oh, that's not on. My god. Now this, okay. And my loud voice has to get toned down a little bit. I realize. Anyway, so to talk about being new in a position, I literally have been the OER ZTC program manager for, I think it's two weeks now.

Chesa Caparas: And three hours.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: Oh yeah. Three hours. Yes, you're right. So, but it builds on the work that I've been doing as a faculty member. I was adjunct faculty of Spanish and linguistics at Cañada. I dropped the Spanish because I'm focusing so much more now on OER. But I also was a faculty coordinator for all things OER and I sat as the chair of our district academic Senate Standing Committee on Teaching and Learning. That's a really long title. So we usually just say District Teaching and Learning Committee. And that is through San Mateo District's Academic Senate.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: And when all the ChatGPT love started, we really focused on the 10+1 and the role of faculty in everything with respect to guidance policy, how we teach, how we teach each other, how we teach our students, how we work with our colleagues at every office on campus. So district teaching and learning started with an AI guidance, that's a website that has a list of best practices, connects directly with the instructional designers at all three campuses. So that's Skyline College, that's College of San Mateo and Cañada College.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: And then I lovingly turned all of this over. I forgot the other piece that is coming out, that we start our first community of practice build on AI that includes not just how to use these tools, but also the ethics and digital literacy component. And then I handed it all off to my colleague, Dr. Jennifer House Owens, who is now the current chair of district teaching and Learning. So this is a collaborative effort. It is faculty led, but it is a collaborative effort.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: District teaching and learning is a primarily a faculty group, but it also includes at least one instructional dean. It always has other classified professionals in there, especially instructional technologists, but others as well. I believe this year they have a director of disability resource center as part of the membership, exactly to address so many of the things that we'll end up talking about later. And then it is also co-chaired by our district's Vice Chancellor of Educational Services and Planning. So that ties in not just the three colleges at various levels, but the district office as well.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: Cool. Hi again, everyone. I'm Kathy Bakhit, Vice President Academic Affairs at Antelope Valley College. I have the privilege of working with Dr. Norma Jones. And the way Norma and I connected illustrates how I approach leadership on AI and other things. And just in terms of my background, my background is in economics. And so having that background, I am naturally inclined to stay in touch with industry trends and what's going on.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: And so I was hired at Antelope Valley College. It was August of '23. And the first week when we had flex week, I saw it was again, it was the beginning of the activities around AI. I saw a webinar, I don't know which organization was offering it. I sent an email across campus to all faculty. I am attending this webinar, join me if you're interested. And behold, about 10 people did. And that is an organic way of engaging people and building the coalition of the willing. And so that organic at work group started meeting and continuing to learn and sharing their knowledge with their colleagues.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: And so we have offered, they have, they, and I supported them, the college, we have offered tens and tens of workshops on the topic they have. They're learning how to produce videos, how to support teaching and learning. Quickly the conversation went into naturally cheating and policies, distance education policy, how to change our board policy to adapt for it, the whole turn it in conversation. Like what do we do about it? Because we can't, especially for minoritized students, we can't accuse them of cheating if we can't prove it. And so if you do that, you are asking for trouble because there's no evidence, there's no tool that it can verify with high level of certainty that a student has copied from AI. You can suspect it, but you can't prove it. And those are two different things.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: Anyhow, so organic engagement and me as the leader, also staying in the know. I cannot have a conversation and understand the faculty concerns if I don't know what AI is and what are the advantages, what are the opportunities, and what are the risks too. And so using the infrastructure of the college and the shared governance, we had presentations at dean's councils, at chair's councils, during flex week, and highlighting their work. We had events, celebrations, awards to thank their work group and encouraged everyone to engage in the conversation.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: Supporting industry connection and partnerships with the community. So we are working with the Chamber of Commerce and business organizations to develop curriculum to support how do we encourage or support the entrepreneurs in implementing AI in their shops because that will help them in terms of productivity. Travel obviously and allocating resources to it and so much more. I'm sure it'll come back to me. But those are some of the, some of the ideas around supporting and leading AI work.

Moderator: Cool. Thank you. May I ask a follow up?

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: Sure.

Moderator: We have different roles, right? Chancellor, VP of academic affairs, coordinator level faculty, and a leader in the AI space across this, you know, a lot of humility happening. Amazing people.

Moderator: And this is the part where I say, okay, in your different roles, how would you like someone from administration, someone from faculty, the roles that you're not in, what are some of the things that you think would, that you've seen that really work really well? Right, and then we talked about like, I think we got what, nine classes in?

Panelist: Yep.

Moderator: Through our curriculum this week. So I was like, oh, right. So what are these things that you would see from your role that has worked well across the different roles that you occupy?

Chesa Caparas: I can get us started because I have this, I will say as a primarily faculty person, especially when I lead AI professional development, it has been so helpful when I just lead with, it's okay if you are too burned out to do this right now. I mean, we have to recognize, I know that the toll has been great on all levels, administrators, et cetera. But faculty, we are on the ground with our students every day. The visceral feeling of, you know, even if I allow AI in my classroom, the visceral feeling of like, ugh, a student like used it unethically again. That is something that, you know, administrators might not understand when they're creating policy. Like what is it like to look a student in the face and say, I don't know if I can accept this because I'm not sure where the thinking or the writing happens and it, I'm not saying that I ever fail those students. I'm saying let's have a conversation.

Chesa Caparas: But I feel like it's really important for, you know, I would love administrators and leaders, especially policy makers, to just know what the experience is like when you're meeting with like dozens, hundreds, you know, our classes are huge, so remember that too, of students. And it's not that we don't want to give them our time. So the automation, I don't think is the answer necessarily. Like, don't just say well have your AI chat bot answer their emails. It's like, well I actually wanna connect with my students. I wanna have time for them, but I'm also so exhausted by all the ways that I've had to adapt since COVID and before. And let's face it, like this is probably the biggest change to hit education in a very long time, right? Probably in our lifetimes. And that's tiring. And I know that there's a lot hype and a lot of excitement and a lot of things that these tools can do. But just also recognizing that it's an additional burden that you're asking faculty and students to take on and then being like, you know, how can I support you in that? Not just like, you have to do this.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: And I think I'd like to piggyback on that. Oh yeah, please. Absolutely. Piggybacking on that from the coordination side of it, and I've seen it both with the AI realm and open educational resources, but the whole time it's creating the space but allowing for the curiosity and not just the curiosity in the space that the person is in. So for example, if I have a faculty member who's curious about how to detect AI illegal use or in unethical use versus ethical use.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: So some of us have been in some of these talks today and yesterday that talk about some of the powers that AI can bring to those who have learning challenges, who are not able to understand the materials for whatever the reason. And that the work that some of these AI backbone software apps and everything else, suddenly I lost all my English words, but I'll use 'em all. It'll work, it says the linguist by the way. So to have an open sense of curiosity, but also understand the frustration and the challenges and the limited space that we all have. The classified staff also have some of these same questions, same concerned, and same curiosities.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: So being able to create spaces that allow that, but also accepting the fact that this is a round that has been around for a long time. This is not just when ChatGPT became live to public, that when we're talking about language models, including the current large language models, we have had these around four decades. And that people who are behind the scenes and working and developing, these have been working on this for a very long time. There's no way to just instantly go, oh, okay, in two seconds I can understand everything about this. Like, you can't, no one can. So chunk it out, go back to principles of universal design for learning. Chunk out that information. Carve out the little piece you wanna try and understand now and that you in the time and space that you have. And I think the more that we do that, the easier this gets to open your mind to possibilities and critiques as well.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: It's interesting 'cause in the Unconference, I did a five minute lightning talk and it started with curiosity and talking about possibilities. So I am the administrator, but I also like to say that I don't think I'm a typical administrator. So there's nothing that is happening from my office that is saying, you must do anything. So when I first began, I actually didn't have any staff in emerging technology. It was just me and frankly ChatGPT trying to build business plans.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: And so I went into the faculty senate. We have four colleges I went into, no, I think they allowed me in in all of them. So I went in and I kept being asked, what's your vision? And I said, I don't have a vision. I need to hear from you. And it's truly been creating that culture of I want to understand number one, where your curiosities are, but where are the pain points? Because I consider myself the advocate for everyone, for faculty, starting with faculty, recognizing the classified folks as well and frankly the administrators who are coming last in terms of our support. And it's really been about what structures can we build so that we can get that information. Because just a survey doesn't do that, right? It's about conversations.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: And so just engaging with the faculty senate that first month I was in there really gave me an idea of, okay, how can I even think about proceeding? And that's been the most important aspect, is the listening piece of it. And then responding and recognizing that things also shift. Now I can't, I'm sure there are people who think that my office or I am dictating something because those are perceptions that just come with the title. But I'm really trying to shift that, that culture and talk about, talk to other leaders around about that as well. Because one of, from our cultural perspective, that that ability to go and try and fail, I know a number of institutions, that's a challenging piece and people are afraid to talk about the failures part. And so I go out and I talk about my failure parts and I talk about how I'm using ChatGPT so they can see an executive using ChatGPT and how I use it. So trying to model that, it's okay, but here's the okay parts of how I do that. So a lot of it is trying to both model, create space for the conversation, respond, but also admit when I get it wrong. And that's the piece that I think is really critical from a leadership perspective.

Chesa Caparas: Can I just wanna jump on real quick, 'cause there was a great quote in one of the panels yesterday that like, how do we get folks on board with technology? It's like, not carrot nor stick, but FOMO. It's like, you know, to tap into that curiosity is like, you know, there are cool things that you can try out. And it's like, it's not about compliance or mandating, but it's about how do you make it look fun or exciting or worth learning about.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: I was just gonna, I could not, I agree with everything that's been said and I don't wanna take the time to repeat what was just shared. And I'm just gonna say that it's easy to empathize with the feeling of overwhelm that faculty are experiencing because I'm experiencing it. I mean it takes a lot to do your job and also add this huge slice. This, you know, you blink five minutes and you have new technology and new tool and a new trend and you have to stay on top of it because you have to be able to speak about it intelligently.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: And so, so coming at things from a, like you said, from a place of curiosity and listening and advocating, like one of the things I've done is advocating to acquire resources to support the faculty so that they get the tools so that they can experiment with them. Because it's hard to learn something like this without actually playing with it. And so it's work in progress. We're not perfect. And there are things, bigger questions that all institutions have to answer regarding data safety and security. And if you remember the conversation this morning from Karen Howe and Dr. Safi from UCLA is that how do we protect the students? How do we raise the students to be active, engaged citizens so that they are able to advocate for themselves around what should AI look like in the coming years? So that is, to me, that is a huge piece. That is a big piece.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: If I may follow up a bit from an administrator perspective, there's a whole infrastructure piece, and you reminded me about this. There's a whole infrastructure piece when we're talking about AI, particularly around data. And so from that administrative perspective, I also have institutional research within my portfolio. And I started, one of the first things I did was started to advocate for the recognition that we needed to start talking about data governance.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: When I first walked in, the IT staff and the research staff were working on developing or implementing an enterprise database warehouse. And that's where you bring all your data together into one place. And it's very complicated and it's taking a very long time to get there. But I also did not believe we had the infrastructure in place to actually support it the way it needed to be supported to make it happen. And so, because I'm an executive and sitting at the table, I was able to bring that position forward. It was the first position, well, I only had got two, it was one of two that I brought forward recognizing that as we're moving forward with AI, if we don't get our data in order, we're not going to be able to do any of this work. So big part, another big part of what I'm looking at is that big picture and the small picture all at once to make sure that we're ready when the institution is ready.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: I wanna add one more thing if I may. I think ultimately based on the previous conversations coming to the conversation from a place of trust as opposed to a place of us versus them, the administrators versus faculty and having faith that the faculty care and they come to work to do a great job with all these things. And so coming at things from that space allows for the openings to have sincere conversations and doing the listening. So you can, because you can't influence someone unless you understand their position. And so that is critical.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: And also thinking about the equity piece, going back to the data, like another component is, okay, I guess during COVID we gave the students the Chromebooks and hotspots and all that good stuff. So now how are we gonna ensure that students who come from disadvantaged backgrounds and they can't pay for themselves for AI subscriptions, how are we gonna support them? Cause all of a sudden the digital divide is getting wider and wider. So addressing that and thinking about that.

Moderator: And with that in mind, thank you very much. A second guiding question is, in what ways can AI help close or widen these equity gaps in higher education? And you touched on that. How are we dealing with this?

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: I think we have to start thinking about how we, first, obviously the faculty are gonna be the biggest piece. The faculty build the curriculum, the faculty have to get the professional development and provide the education. The administration has to support them in that. But then also I would say advocacy is a big piece. Like where I sit, I mean we have to be in touch with the chancellor's office and the legislator to impact them in terms of allocating resources to assure that we are able to support the students with access to the tools. So that's one piece.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: The first thing that comes to mind is being inclusively collaborative. Not just, going back to what Kathy, what you said about getting away from that us versus them concept. Making sure you have enough people and as many people as possible in that room to get as many perspectives. It's not just having faculty, but how many different types of faculty, CTE versus transfer, non-credit versus credit. You know, you get as many people, as many voices in that room, making sure it's not just a token classified member, but as many classified voices as possible. Because they all do so many different things and they really are closer to the students than even the faculty are. If you do not have your retention specialists, your disability resources services, your library learning center, all of those folks, if you do not have them in the room and are not listening to them, you really do not have the student perspective, which leads to the third part.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: Get student senate involved, get the students in those conversations. You need to hear from them. They are the ones going through this. When we were putting together district teaching and learning, for example, we made sure that if we could, we could get a student representative on there. And when we couldn't, when I was chair, I was going to the student senate for the district and connecting to as many of our three student senate as possible. So I could hear from them directly. When we were putting out that AI guidance piece, we gave it out to the student senate to say, what's your view of this? Is this really gonna be help if we give this to faculty, for example, is this really gonna be helpful for them? So in that planning piece, making sure you have as many viewpoints as possible is, I think crucial.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: Yeah, that student perspective has been so important. One of the first panels that we had was a student panel recognizing that, I really wanted to make sure the faculty were hearing from the students. And early on AI conversations were not happening in the classrooms. Very few people had syllabi statements and talking, or had conversations around AI. So our first student panel, and we've had quite a few now. Our first student panel, they talked about the inequities with their student peers. They're the ones who brought that up.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: Secondarily, they also talked about how they used it. And one of our ESL students talked about how they were using it to help them understand the assignments and then help them in their writing and learning grammar and things of that nature. So they were describing how they were using it in an ethical manner, but really talking about the equity components that were in there and how it was creating equity for her having this tool to help her both understand and write.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: And so we took that further in our second year and we had student interns who not only were part of our weekly planning, but then had projects on their own to engage with other students and putting together their own student panels. And now we're actually expanding that further this year and looking to have our student interns and student externs working with the different colleges and bringing other students together as we're starting to do this work and starting to really think about workshops for students because they are asking for that. And of course our survey just went out this week is to students as well. And we've got, I think as many in the first day as we had in our first year of the student survey. So that student first voice is, if you're not doing that, that would be your first action step, is to really start engaging with the students.

Chesa Caparas: So to kind of directly address the question of how AI might widen equity gaps, 'cause I work in our equity office as well. So I think that one of the things that has really struck me, and I hope that we always think about when we're considering different forms of AI adoption is this phrase that one of my instructional designers mentioned to me. And I was like, oh my gosh, that's amazing. It's the right to talk to a human. Like we should have the right to talk to a human.

Chesa Caparas: And, you know, I went to a great panel at ASCCC where she recommended the book called The Last Human Job, which really talks about how automation is kind of eroding our ability to do connective labor, which is our ability to connect with other human beings on a human level. And I think that, and one of the arguments of the book is that as AI adoption gets more widespread, people who have privilege and have means will be able to connect with other humans, whereas those who don't have resources will connect with more chat bots or you know, like the digital concierge whatever, because it seems to be more efficient and oh, everyone will have access, but what are the benefits of actually interacting with a human?

Chesa Caparas: So that's one of the ways that I think if we're not intentional and not sort of mindful of the value of actually communicating with people on a human level, then we could widen equity gaps because then those who can afford genuine human interaction, those who can afford like small to go to a school that has smaller class sizes where they get individualized attention from a teacher are gonna be at an advantage. Especially when you read all of the business insider and Forbes about what are the skills that students are gonna need? They're gonna know how to work in teams, how to work in groups, how to collaborate, and all those durable skills of talking to other people. Like how are they gonna get that if they have been, you know, most of their interactions have become automated?

Moderator: Hi, thank you. Pass the mic. Pass the mic. Alright, so one thing as you were talking, I was thinking about how, and especially in your role, Sarah, how teachers, faculty, people who do have access, either through their schools, can potentially use these tools to create other things to help with equity. I mean, how do we address that? Sorry, my apologies. Pass it, sorry.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: Pass it to the left hand side. There's a number of ways and I'm gonna tap into the open educational resource base on this one because that's really where we can do the most good, I think. There are a number of ways that we can currently use AI as well as some developing technologies that are coming out that will further enhance this. So number one is, let's start with the instructional materials themselves.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: It has always made me cringe when I have talked to my faculty colleagues who say I have to use the publisher material, I don't know how to create anything. And I look them dead in the eye and say, you've never created a question in your life. You've never created a handout in your life. Oh, well of course I have. What do you think that is? That's an instructional material. So being able to unlock that power, whether it is getting over the hump of, I don't know how to start, alright, let me use the search engine of choice. And let's face it, most of our campuses are connected either to Microsoft, Google, or both. So we have enterprise level of Copilot or of Gemini or some of us have purchased when we're able to, we have purchased licenses to other things to be able to say, I don't know how to start, but here's my initial idea. Using that AI as a thought partner to say, where could this creativity go?

Dr. Sarah Harmon: I have a colleague at Cañada who literally two years ago when all of this started looked at me and said I would never use AI for anything. And I'm like, really? So I happen to know this person and I happen to know, they use the same test banks over and over and over and over and over and over again. And I said, "Wouldn't you like to have new test questions?" "Well, yeah, but I don't know how to start that." "Let me introduce you to ChatGPT." And that was just two years ago now. Now this person is creating all sorts of different question types tapping into, literally tapping into the learning outcomes for the module, for the course to be able to say, I don't know how to start, but this is my idea. You can take that with respect to anything and adapt it.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: And when we go into the open educational resource realm, being able to say, I like this textbook, this OER textbook, but it reflects a perspective that is not as appropriate to my local students. Some of my business faculty really love a couple of textbooks for some of their biz courses that come out of Canada. Great finding, but how's that gonna apply to San Mateo County or California or heck even the US as a whole. So being able to say, okay, I like this text but I wanna modify it. And for somebody like me, I'm a trained technical writer and editor, I can pretty much do that. I'm not gonna say in my sleep that's a little ambitious, and I like my sleep, but I can definitely do that fairly easily.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: But if you do not have a writing background, how do you start, how do you start to modify that text and do it in a way that not just benefits my students. What about if I asked my students to use some of these large language models, some of these creative apps, to have them tell their own stories with respect to the instructional materials to be able to say, okay, that's the textbook edition and this is a really good model, but how does it apply to my life, to my community and my identities, plural, by the way, that's the power that some of these tools can give us to be able to unlock it. Where we combine that and then we combine that with digital literacy and ethics and how to do this appropriately to admit how you're using these tools, the ways in which you're using these tools, and how they have helped you to create on your own as well. I think that's, and that's just starting.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: And everything you just described is the same thing we have to do with and for our students because that's all about the AI literacy aspects. So really finding opportunities where our students can be engaged in those same conversations. I think I mentioned that we're going to be implementing a student AI microcredential. You know, we haven't really quite figured out how it's going to roll out. Cause we can make it accessible. That doesn't mean the student's going to use it. We've talked about maybe we put it into a personal growth class and talk to a couple of personal growth faculty and say, oh yeah, I'd be really excited about that. This is a micro-credential that San Diego state first created. They're on their second year working with it and they're talking about that, they're actually putting it in their first year experience. So how do we create opportunities for our students to learn that that may not be directly in the classroom, although we'd love our faculty, to do some of that as well. What are all the different opportunities? And it may be student to student opportunities, whether it's a club, whether it's a workshop that the student is running for the student with our support. We need to make sure we're getting that out there for them as well. From an equity perspective.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: I wanna carry this thought and share how I think about approaching all of AI and actually approaching how we should think about our students and organizations. And when I look at the student experience and the research, we hear repeatedly, students, we need to provide more engaged learning. The students, the business community tells us the students are not coming with enough interpersonal and communication and problem-solving skills. There's the whole threat of like integrity that the faculty feel pressure is like, am I giving a student a grade that is not an honest grade and passing them without them being truly have learned and prepared for the labor force. There is the post-COVID isolation that the students are experiencing and disconnect and especially with them being so attached to their devices and so on.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: And so I am thinking that there's one overarching strategy that look different things in different contexts, but it all links together. And the overarching strategy is community building, whether it is the two faculty talking to each other and teaching each other, the students engaging each other, the faculty to the student. Because even in an online class, if you have check-ins, you will know your student. And we all know the research tells us that when you know someone, you are less likely to engage in deceptive behavior with them because there is like the human connection.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: And the internships to address the interpersonal communications and engaged learning and so on. And so building the community in different aspects in different places where you take for example, problem-based learning. I don't know how many people have learned about the Worcestershire institute. I think somewhere back east, one of the major institutions where they take a community problem and you form a group of a learning community to address the community problem using data and collaborating to problem solve.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: So having a community approach to any of the, you know, whatever it is we're deciding on, will be very powerful in addressing the multitude of challenges we are facing. People will get connected, they develop, they know that they care. Like for example, when students are choosing a major, they still rely on their families and family associates to decide on a major, "Oh, my friend, their kid did this and now they're making a good amount of money. You think you should go research it?" What's that? It's community, right? And so even though we have all the technology we have, the students are still based in their families, in their communities, in the people around them, in the high schools mentoring and so on and so forth. So that's my thought on it.

Moderator: Yeah. Thank you. So yeah, building on the sense of community, if I may transition to our third guiding question and last, based on your roles, your different roles across your districts, how are you leading to maintain the human element, that connection, that community as AI continues to proliferate higher ed?

Chesa Caparas: Me, the last one. So I didn't, I mean it was all in my head then I thought I was talking. Well, I will say I wanna give a huge shout out to Learning Lab, California Education Learning Lab because last year I was one of the AI faculty innovators and residents and one of the things I did was leading a statewide inner segmental interdisciplinary AI learning community. So it spanned California Community Colleges, CSUs, UCs. And with what Kathy was saying, it is about community building. And I do think it's also valuable to have it be interdisciplinary, inter segmental.

Chesa Caparas: Cause you know, as I know Fabi Torres, who's also in the audience has mentioned like, we need to be in these conversations because the stuff that we're doing at the community college level is in a lot of ways constrained by what's allowed at the Cal States and the UCs where our students are gonna go, you know, if that's the path that they choose. So that was like, just again, like really diving into this idea of how do we build community across different institutions, across different regions of California. Because here in Silicon Valley where De Anza is, we have access to a lot of stuff that folks in like Humboldt or the Central Valley, like don't have. And so having those conversations around like what is it like, what are the conditions like at your institution, in your different disciplines, like what does that mean? And it informs the way the work that we do.

Chesa Caparas: But I also wanna say, what else? Human element. Honestly, I mean like I feel like, I know I might have sound like more pessimistic and skeptic, you know, of the folks on the panel, but I actually do teach a lot with AI in my classes. I have students use it, I have them do, I teach literature courses as well. And I will just say I love when they stop thinking about things like ChatGPT as the thing that gives them the answer and more as like, how do I like play around with it, have fun with it, critique it, then the human element of them comes out.

Chesa Caparas: And if you've heard me talk before, you might've heard me share this example, but I teach a literature course where I invite students to iterate with any LLM, a lot of them use ChatGPT, and I say just have it create, I teach myth and folklore. And so I said ask it to create a folk tale about aliens that come from outer space and are appalled by the ways that humans treat animals. And I say keep iterating with it until you are satisfied with the output. So it's not just like copy and paste the first thing, but it's like really interrogate, like what did it give you and what do you like about it? What do you not like about it? And then they write a reflection about their process.

Chesa Caparas: So I had one student who he did it and he said, oh well, you know, the first iteration I was like, oh, this sounds really, I don't know, it just sounds canned. And it kind of reminded him of the movie Predator. And so he's like, now write it in the style of the movie "Predator". And so he wrote it and, and the chat bot wrote it and he's like, you know, I still don't like it. It sounds like I don't like the dialogue. It sounds really generic. So they said, now write all of the dialogue as Arnold Schwarzenegger movie quotes, right? And so that was the next iteration. And so then, and so hearing, seeing their process, and then he even noticed, he said, oh, I noticed that every iteration the story resolves with him talking it out. And he's like, that's boring, you know, it's an English class, but talking it out to solve your problems was boring. So he says, I want it to end in a dance battle. And so then he has his final story that it's a all Arnold Schwarzenegger get to the chopper and then they, you know, and then it ends in a dance battle. That's what resolves. And to me, like that's how I love seeing the human in my students, how I love to see like, what are you doing with this tool? Like, have at it, have fun, and tell me what you think and what you didn't like and how can we make it better? So that's another way.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: Go ahead.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: So I don't know if I am, I can't say that this is what I am doing or we are doing at AVC now, but I feel that we should be doing more of it. And it is helping the students connect to themselves through thinking and reflecting on their experiences. Because I feel that a key, like our, ultimately our goal is to help the students be persistent, be successful, right? We're all after that. And they have many barriers. One of them is what do I do with this? How do I use it? Is it okay? Is it not okay? And so on and so forth. And I feel that an, again, overarching strategy is to help them find their life purpose. Because through reflection and connecting to themselves, then they have the reason, the why for whatever it is that they're doing.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: If this is the major, if this is the class, if this is the internship surviving, waking up at five o'clock in the morning to go take an early class so you can end early and go get a job or do an internship. This is how, like the real life of the students or do a couple of jobs. And so having that connection to themselves, who they are, where they came from, what is their family narrative, what's their history, and having a purpose that's connected and based in that will carry them to also to use AI as a tool as opposed to being overtaken by AI.

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: So, I did a presentation, I am gonna share on this topic to students at Cal Poly Pomona in July, 150 students attended. The SurveyMonkey did not work. And so we ended up handing, I had post-it notes, a bunch of post-it notes. I was hungry to hear from the students what they thought of the presentation. Eighty out of the 150 present gave feedback. And 60 out of the 80 gave the presentation a score of 10 out of 10. That told me that the student wanna talk about that. Who am I? What am I trying to do? What is my role? Where do I fit? What's my purpose? What's my life plan? It's not just a class or a tool. It's part of a bigger picture of who you are and what you're about and what you are becoming. And so that is the big, to me, that's the bigger conversation.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: I'm recognizing we're getting towards our time and I know we wanted to leave some questions, so I'm gonna be very brief. And you mentioned something, I took one quote from this morning from Karen Howe and it was, "AI needs to serve us. We are not serving AI." And I think that's really important to remember also that, you know, AI is something that can help build your capacity, not take it away. And that's really how I think about it and how I try to talk about it. Sometimes I don't wanna use the term tool with it and I struggle between using it and not using it, but just really thinking about how it could help you in your capacity. I think I started out, I mentioned that I didn't have any staff when I started, any team when I started. And that's, I use ChatGPT to ideate with because that's what I had at the moment. So how do we use it to build our own capacity, not necessarily that it's going to do things for us, but help us think about how we're doing things. So I'm gonna leave it at that.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: And I'm gonna pick up on that with a quote from somebody else who talked yesterday. So Christopher Lafayette, who was in the AI companion panel, one of the key takeaways, he hit I think at least three or four times in a couple different ways, and I'm gonna paraphrase it as well, is to say, basically understand that what we are really good at is empathy, connection, collaboration, that human element. AI doesn't do that very well. What AI can do are the things that very well are some of the things that we don't do very well. So the very quick intake of information and quick analysis.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: So that in my roles, continues to be that realm of understand that, yes, AI can help us do a number of different things, but it also is incumbent upon us to continue to humanize how we interact with all aspects of technology, not just AI. So when I come across the person, not just faculty member, there's plenty of classified and administrators who also, and students even who are absolutely anti-AI. And when you allow them to see that it is through some of these AI based adaptive technologies that we have students who actually can unlock education, they can go through that door and be part of the education sphere.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: When we are able to take these amazing ideas that as educators, no matter what our positions are, we have these amazing ideas through decades in most cases of training and education and instruction. And we can take those ideas and share them with people in ways that they can understand, even though we ourselves may not be very good writers in our own estimations, by the way, most folks are actually pretty good writers. And you just don't want to admit it, or don't understand the power that you have. AI can help us do that, but we have to bring that human element to it. When we do, we suddenly do have a really great connection. And I've always thought of this era of AI as kind of like, sorry, I'm a secret Trekky. So if you, you know, fellow Trekkies, or even if you've seen one episode or one movie of "Star Trek", you know the ship's computer, ship's computer can do a lot of things, but it's the human element that made "Star Trek" and that the, I shouldn't say humans, the anthropomorphic type folks and the AI, the ship's computer together were the problem solvers. When you combine the two pieces, it's really powerful.

Moderator: Thank you. And we do have one last question, which is considering the humanity and what you talked about in community, and there's sometimes like a slightly dark side to that is what about the AI shaming, what about people who maybe use AI but are afraid to admit it? Because people, I'll admit that, being a woman of color, English is not my first language. That some of us are a little bit more susceptible to issues like that. How would you address that as we're building this community? Thank you.

Dr. Sarah Harmon: I can start off with this one really quickly. I learned from a colleague of mine many years ago who was an ESL professor at Cañada. When she starts off her class, it doesn't matter if we're talking level one to the very most basic level, all the way to level four, if a student starts to apologize for not being able to express themselves in English, she says, stop apologizing, you're still learning. And that is what I would say. That is what I do say to folks who feel shameful for some reason for using some of these technologies. You should feel shame if you're using them unethically, that's a whole other question. But if you're using them to help you do something, to express yourself, to connect with others, stop it. You're still learning how to use it. Stop apologizing.

Chesa Caparas: And just to add on that, I've noticed, I teach English, and a lot of students who are ashamed to admit that they use it, it's because they're ashamed to admit that they don't think their English is good enough. And I feel like that is the deeper sort of question or like place that I wanna be curious about because I think a lot, and then when I ask them it is that like, well, English is not my first language and so I just don't think I'm good enough. And this goes back to the topic of trust that was brought up earlier, which is that one of the dangers of these technologies is that folks who lack a sort of innate sense of trusting themselves, that they have value, that their opinions matter, and that their voice, however grammatically incorrect it is, is still valuable, are gonna be more susceptible to relying on the tools that end up making them sound like everybody else. And so we have to understand the motivation that some people are so afraid of their own voice that they would much rather sound like, you know, the generic ChatGPT voice than like themselves. And I feel like for me as an educator, that's the place where I see like, that's where I wanna intervene. Not did you cheat? Cause I don't care. Like, I just wanna know why, like why did you not rely on your own innate knowledge or your your own ability to ask questions and your own curiosity to have that conversation with me?

Dr. Kathy Bakhit: I'm gonna say that being in a leadership position, you set the tone for the conversations in meetings in how you interact. And people are not stupid. They pick up on cues and they know when you treat people with respect and dignity and when you don't. And if you truly, genuinely treat people with respect and dignity, you give them the grace of not knowing. And also you carry yourself in a way where you're, you know, presenting your authentic, authentic self with the things you do know and the things you don't know, and therefore you're more comfortable to ask questions because like, hey, I mean, I share my story, for example, I started in ESL classes at Mount Sac and I couldn't put a sentence of English. And so I have published articles and I have my PhD. And so I was afraid initially to share my story and, you know, because oversharing like TMI, they tell me, my kids used to tell me TMI. But the truth is, if we are authentic and we share who we are genuinely, then we are more likely to make people comfortable saying where they're at and what they're afraid of and how they're feeling about things and how them move to the next step. And having that tone when you're in a leadership position is so critical. And people know it. People feel it and they know it. Thank you.

Dr. Michelle Fischthal: I'll just add to it, that being as a leader, being vulnerable. And really we had an AI day and I shared that I created the opening speech with the help of AI. And that was shocking to some people. Now, it was my own words that I put in there. Like it, I didn't ask it to create an opening speech. I had all these thoughts that I wanted, but I also wanted them to be organized so that people could understand them well. And so even I, yes, I might be able to sit down and write something that's really understandable, but I also know that if I'm going to do it and do it quickly and I want specific things in it, this is one way that I can build my capacity. And so I talk about how I do that. One of my emails was brought up in a training session at another college and it was brought up from a negative perspective. Look, Vice Chancellor Fischthal did this. And I'm like, okay, that's okay. I'm okay with that. Yes, there were parts of it that I did. It was to describe the AI Challenge Grant and I wanted to pull out the details using, so I did. So it's being out there vulnerable and saying, yes, I too am doing this.

Moderator: That is our time. Thank you so very much. Let's give it up for our panelists. Thank you. Appreciate you all. Questions come on up.
