Pam Gutman: So I'm Pam Gutman. I'm the Regional Director for Advanced Transportation for the California Community Colleges here in the Bay Area. What that means is I work with the transportation programs for the colleges that have programs in aviation, automotive, and in drones.

Pam Gutman: And this morning we're gonna be talking about advanced air mobility. And this is an area that I particularly have a great passion for. I have been extraordinarily lucky to be working in the field of transportation because transportation has been absolutely transforming before our very eyes.

Pam Gutman: And we are so fortunate today to have three of our partners in advanced air mobility to share with you what they're doing in the world of eVTOLs and autonomous aircraft. Some of which seem like out of another age completely, but they are getting very, very close to joining the other aircraft in the sky.

Pam Gutman: And for our students, this is a tremendous opportunity to partner with people who are pioneers in absolutely new technology and new aircraft. And it's our good fortune to have them with us today to share with us the skills that our students are going to need to be successful in those careers going forward. Because what we're preparing them for now comes close, but not quite the whole ball of wax or what they need for careers going forward.

Pam Gutman: So today we are very lucky to have with us three employers, Pyka, who is in Alameda and quite close by to my home college. And she's working in the area of advanced aircraft that's autonomous and working and providing crop dusting services autonomously. And they're doing that currently in certain countries around the world and soon in our own backyards.

Pam Gutman: And then we have both Joby and Wisk Aero who are very, very close to getting all of what they need in the area of eVTOLs. And they're gonna explain all that to you. And I'm hopefully gonna sign up for one of the first rides ever in that area. I'm very excited. They don't know that, but I'm gonna do that.

Pam Gutman: And then we have UC Berkeley here with us today because I found out not too long ago that UC Berkeley's doing some exciting things in the world of advanced transportation. And they're going to hopefully be working with us, partnering with the community colleges in this capacity. Because I see tremendous opportunity for us to work together going forward because we're gonna be sharing our skill sets, our knowledge, and our students with them. 'Cause some of our students hopefully, will go on to UC Berkeley, let's hope.

Pam Gutman: I also have with us today DART, which is the drone and robotic technology initiative who I got to meet a couple of years ago and was absolutely blown out of the water when I went to their LIFT Summit this past March. Because they brought in everybody from the world of advanced air mobility and it was extremely exciting and thrilling. And they're doing tremendous work for our students in the workforce development field.

Pam Gutman: So today we have Josh Metz from DART who's going to be moderating the panel this morning. And I'm gonna turn it over to Josh.

Moderator (Josh Metz): All right. All right, Pam, thank you very much. And thank you, yeah. Yeah.

Moderator (Josh Metz): It was great to have you at the LIFT Summit and get a chance to make this connection with the Bay Area Community College Consortium and now the California group. And I'm gonna open with a little overview of where DART is coming from. And let me see if I can get that to come up on the screen. Give me one moment here. And then I'll turn it over to our panelists.

Moderator (Josh Metz): The reason I'm gonna talk about DART is that that we indeed have been working in the field of advanced air mobility. And really the integration of emerging capabilities and autonomy, electrification and how those converge to deliver growth opportunities in a variety of sectors. So this is our DART board and the blue lines there indicate some of the areas that we've seen opportunity since starting this work really back in 2017.

Moderator (Josh Metz): We were involved with the redevelopment of Fort Ord down in Monterey County, and saw some things happening that pointed us in this direction. And so we have, we're a public benefit corporation and we have programs in workforce development, infrastructure and ecosystem. So a lot of what we do is connect with industry, academia, government and community based organizations to realize the opportunities that these emerging technologies represent. And so that's some of the background.

Moderator (Josh Metz): One of the, we have the Joby aircraft up there on the right because Joby has found a home at the form of Fort Ord with their manufacturing operations. And that was really one of the catalysts for our involvement. But you can see that, you know, what's really compelling for, from the standpoint of rural California and counties outside the Bay Area is that there's opportunities in this emerging sector as along with the traditional hubs in the Bay Area. So we focus a lot on that.

Moderator (Josh Metz): And you know, I just wanna point out that, you know, while Pam indicated there are some technicalities in terms of future certification of aircraft to carry people. There's a lot going on, as you well know, in existing applications of autonomous systems, drones for different use cases. You hear about it in the news all the time. And certainly the national security apparatus is the largest market, but we, there's huge potential for good. And so infrastructure inspection, wildfire response and support, moving people and in agriculture.

Moderator (Josh Metz): So those are the Joby, Wisk and Pyka aircraft down there below. So those are things to pay attention to for your students and your programs. And we have identified, especially in the advanced air mobility category, these opportunities for community college. You know, certainly moving into four year and the engineering degree pathway is well understood, but we have found that there's a huge need for all kinds of technical, technician roles in advanced manufacturing, electric aircraft maintenance, aerospace and ground operations and field operations among others.

Moderator (Josh Metz): And to make this all work, especially for the moving of people and goods, there's gonna be new infrastructure required. So all of that is opportunity for our community and the community college has a huge role to play in that. I just wanted to call out two recent funding awards that the state of California has made in terms of supporting the growth of this sector. One is a large award to the University of California natural resources, $15 million across the state to support the movement towards improved ag tech integration. And so one of the components of that is a whole curriculum for drone education.

Moderator (Josh Metz): We find that the drone education is really the gateway drug for aerospace today. And so it's a great way to engage students at an early age. Down in the Monterey Bay Area in the Central Coast, there was another big award made $7.5 million dollars to support the growth of an air mobility innovation corridor that will link general aviation airports to existing nodes to further the capabilities of the companies represented here to develop and test and expand in California. That's all really important for retaining jobs and growing our economy.

Moderator (Josh Metz): So if you wanna hear more about this, Pam mentioned it, our LIFT Summit is in March of next year and we'd love to have more community college folks involved. And so with that I'd like to turn to our esteemed panel, which is an incredible group of people and companies and education providers that you'll hear from. And I'll pass it next to Monisha White from Pyka to do a little introduction and tell you about herself and her company and then we'll get into some Q&A as we get into it. Thank you. You can pull your guy up there.

Monisha White (Pyka): All right. Hi, everyone. I am really excited to be here to talk to you about Pyka. Pyka is a robotics company on a mission to build the most useful autonomous aircraft on Earth. I wanna start with a video so you can actually see our planes in action.

Narrator: Pyka was founded in 2017 by four entrepreneurs with a vision to bring society a safer, cleaner, and more cost-effective form of transportation enabled by autonomous electric aircraft. But to get there, we have taken a very different approach than most. First, we gave up on the vertical takeoff and landing requirements of past aircraft we have developed in order to dramatically simplify our products and increase their range. And second, we wanted to bring an autonomous electric aircraft to market as fast as humanly possible.

Narrator: So we targeted use cases that have an inherent tolerance of risk and an immediate need for innovation. We started with the most dangerous commercial aviation mission on Earth, which is crop dusting. And then the question for us was, can we actually show an end-to-end proof of these autonomous electric capabilities really demonstrate their significance to customers? So that is exactly what we did. We identified the requirements for the market and designed an extremely innovative product to fit those requirements that incorporates just dozens of proprietary technologies ranging from batteries to motor controllers to motors, and the entire flight control stack in avionics underneath that.

Narrator: We then secured precedent setting regulatory approvals for the aircraft, which allows us to operate commercially in the United States, in Brazil and much of Latin America. We delivered to some of the biggest players in the market, including Dole and Embraer. And ramped production to roughly one aircraft per month while racking up over 5,000 flights.

Narrator: On top of that, we answered the market's demand for a large scale zero emission cargo aircraft by launching an exciting new product, Pelican Cargo. Today we've delivered Pelican Cargo to customers including the United States Air Force Research Lab as well as Skyports' drone services. And we managed to pull all of this off with roughly $30 million spent.

Narrator: With five years of commercial operation under our belt and customers across three different continents, Pyka is by far the leader in commercializing large scale autonomous electric aircraft. We're now rapidly scaling up production in the Bay Area with an eye towards significant revenue growth in the next couple of years as well as a fast path to profitability.

Monisha White (Pyka): I'm still going. So Pyka was founded in 2017 in the Bay Area. The company actually started in Michael, the CEO's parents' backyard in Stanford, California, where our four co-founders built the very first prototype of a Pyka plane that actually flew successfully. We've now grown to around 80 employees and we operate in a 110,000 square foot production facility in Alameda Point. So this is our whole team, our people and dogs in our facility in Alameda.

Monisha White (Pyka): We have, in addition to our production facility, we have two test sites that are each about an hour away and we are actively flying our aircraft there every single day. Our founders really wanted our products to actually make a real world impact quickly. We identified use cases that are very risky and where our aircraft would have an immediate benefit to our customers. We started with crop dusting, which is the most dangerous flight mission on Earth.

Monisha White (Pyka): Just to give you a bit of a sense of this, a pilot who has a 40 plus year career as a crop duster has about a 15% chance of dying on the job. We launched our agricultural aircraft as a safer, cleaner and more cost-effective alternative to the conventional crop dusting methods. One, there's no pilot on board. There is, it's zero emission. It massively reduces the drift of the chemicals that are spraying that can be really harmful to neighboring communities and neighboring farms. And it reduces the use of these chemicals up to 15%, which in addition to being more environmentally friendly is also creates significant cost savings.

Monisha White (Pyka): In 2021, we then launched our Pelican Cargo, which is the aircraft on the left. It has about 80% shared commonality with our agricultural aircraft.
