Moderator: Welcome to Anxiety Algorithms and Gen Z, Generative AI and student mental health. We're so excited. Yay.

Audience: Woo.

Moderator: We're so excited to see you all. I'm gonna do panelist bios. I always take a lot of time for bios when I moderate a panel because why do we wanna hear from these experts? What's their expertise? What do they bring to the table, that's worth taking a little time to discover.

So I'm gonna start with Dr. Xuan Zhao, a national expert in the psychology of social connection, wellbeing, and human AI interaction. She's a behavioral scientist at Stanford University and the CEO and co-founder of Flourish Science, a public benefit startup translating behavioral science into everyday tools for emotional wellness. Her work has been featured in major news outlets and under her leadership Flourish AI has supported students across 200 plus campuses, won the 2024 Stanford Ed Tech Award and led the Nation's first Wellbeing AI study of which Foothill College is a key partner. Let's all welcome Dr. Zhao.

Moderator: Next we have Alex Kraft. Alex Kraft graduated summa laude from Chapman University in 2025 with a BA in psychology and as a member of the University honors program. She has conducted research at Stanford UCSF and Chapman on topics ranging from virtual reality interventions to belonging and mental health. In addition to her research, Alex has experience in crisis counseling and psychotherapy and currently works as a research assistant at Flourish Science supporting studies utilizing their app-based tools for emotional wellbeing. Welcome Alex.

Moderator: And then finally on the end here we have Gil. Gil Perez is a full-time tenured personal counselor at College of San Mateo. As a faculty leader, he has helped transform the mental health model at his institution and in the CCC system to ensure students have flexible and broad mental health services that meet the full range of mental health needs. He works with student support programs and instructional programs to deliver mental health programming that are culturally responsive and advance the educational mission, vision and values of the college. He provides direct mental health services to students, consultation to faculty and staff, serves as a clinical supervisor and oversees the mental health peer educator program, as well as the chapter advisor for Active Minds. Excellent.

Moderator: I will be y'all's panel moderator today. My name is Trudi Radtke, I'm an instructional technologist designer for Mort Park College. I'm also an AI fellow at the Chancellor's office. I'm conducting a lot of research in AI literacy and my background is in primarily ed tech. And then I also have a background in policy and open access research and advocacy.

Moderator: So without further ado, we're gonna get started. Our first question is for Gil, opening and framing of this conversation. From your perspective on the CCC Mental Health and Wellness board, what new mental health trends are you seeing among community college students? How are these needs similar to or different from those at four year institutions?

Gil Perez: I just wanna say good afternoon. Good afternoon everyone. I want to thank you all for choosing to be with us for the panel today.

So I do want to start off with some statistics to start us off. These statistics are from NAMI and Active Minds. 50% of mental health conditions begin by age 14 and 75% begin by age 24. So I want us to think about lived experiences, cumulative experiences, traumatic life events, other experiences of our students that contribute to anxiety, depression, and suicide ideation. We know there are global events, violence, climate change, immigration, separation and deportation. And by the time our students reach college, they're also navigating an entirely new environment. There's pressure to succeed and meet familial and societal expectations, be financially stable and future focused. And this can really exacerbate isolation and loneliness because of competition, comparisons with their peers, very strenuous study schedules, sleep deprivation, and not feeling like they have time for friends, family, or making new friends.

And so from my work with Gen Z over the years, I am seeing more of an openness to talk about mental health. And there are different platforms for them to use their voice or share their story. That includes social media. We see podcasts, they're going live, there's more peer-to-peer programming that are happening on campus. And at the same time, we know that stigma is still pervasive. So our colleges are uniquely positioned to meet the mental health needs of today's students by offering relevant support and ensuring that we're broadening the options for mental health care that is inclusive of digital care to support prevention, early intervention and treatment of mental health issues for our students.

And I also want to highlight loneliness is a significant issue that we are also positioned to address on our campus. The US surgeon General declared loneliness, a public health epidemic comparing its health risk to smoking 15 cigarettes a day. If folks haven't heard that before. And what I'm seeing in my practice, I'm seeing Gen Z turn to AI for connection and care. It's so easy to go to ChatGPT to validate their feelings, empathize with their situation. AI is there for them. And I've heard students even call AI, ChatGPT, their best friend. So it becomes a form of companionship, but we know AI is not a replacement for real human connection.

Moderator: Fantastic, thank you Gil.

Moderator: Our next question is for Xuan, anxiety is at the heart of this panel's title, recent bestsellers, like "The Anxious Generation", have argued that Gen Z is growing up in uniquely stressful conditions. Why do you think this generation is often described as quote, the most anxious in the US and most importantly for our audience listeners, how does AI amplify or relieve that anxiety?

Dr. Xuan Zhao: Yeah. It's really hard to be a young person nowadays. I don't envy them at all. In fact, there's a recent study, very interesting, so the Happiness Report, world Happiness report comes out every year and used to be happiness used to be a U-shaped curve. That is when you're young or when you're old, you're happy. And people in the middle sandwich in the middle are the least happiest. But now it's a linear increase that is the older you are, the happier you are. Young people are the least happiest now. And speaking of anxiety, that's also a big issue. So 10 years ago depression was the biggest mental health challenge, but nowadays, anxiety there's been across over a few years ago.

So who here have read this book, "The Anxious Generation" by Jon Hyde? We have at least two people, three, four, yes. Highly recommend, very interesting book about analyzing the anxiety problem our young people have. Of course there are some scholarly debate about some of the arguments here, but I think overall my takeaways are one, the reason why we are seeing such an increase in anxieties is because increase of screen time, smartphone, social media and combined with decrease of in-person time, face-to-face time, free play. So combined people actually social media and tech screen, they contribute lots of issues. So social comparison, loneliness, isolation, and also anxiety by, you know, comparing with the standard out there, what you perceive to be the standard. So that's why I think really it's uniquely challenging now.

And I think now AI is coming. AI is a really interesting tool. It can actually have the opportunity to amplify the challenges, the problems we are seeing right now, 'cause AI can be even more addictive, more personalized, more echo chamber a very, we know the AI can be very affirming, right? It can actually not challenging what you say and that is one path. But the other path is AI, we can actually use it to help students build coping strategies that they don't get to practice in using social media or using their screen to nudge them to reach out to other people, to help them to set up reminder just in time when their mind is going in spiraling.

So the choice is how are we going to design these kind of technology and how schools and other stakeholders are going to promote well intended scientifically grounded ways to use AI rather than letting students wander onto some harmful tools. And that might seem fun, but could be dangerous in the long run. So I would say scientific grounding, ethical design, and also clinical guidance. Those are all really important things when we think about building AI that can be useful for mental health and even revert the trend we are seeing with social media.

Moderator: Fantastic. I really like that point, especially that students are gonna use it. So we might as well have an option for them that is research based, that is scientific, give them choices that are good choices versus just having them run to the first thing, which is generally ChatGPT.

Dr. Xuan Zhao: Yeah. Can I just share two points? Students already using it. So in '24, 2024, the most common use case for gen AI was idea generation. But in 2025 it's therapy and companion. So people are already using this. It's the most common way people use it nowadays. And for recently Common Sense Media, they did a research study on, in this case teens, not college students, but they found that 76% of teens have used AI companion. Half of them say that they use it regularly. So yes, they are already using it now. I think teaching AI literacy, what are good ways to use AI for emotional, mental, wellbeing support, what are some dangerous ways to use it? That's really important.

Moderator: Absolutely, absolutely. I think literacy is at the heart of a lot of these conversations.

Moderator: This question is for Alex. As a student leader and a student leader in peer support, how do you see your peers relationships with AI and mental health? Is AI adding to their stress or are students beginning to use it as a tool for support?

Alex Kraft: Yeah, so as you might expect, it's both on the stressor side, we're obviously seeing concerns over the job market, which was already not too great for us. I just graduated. I am, you know, working as a nanny. So that says that. But I think that for a lot of fields outside of, you know, myself, I have friends in, you know, computer science or business and there's a lot of concern that a lot of these entry level job positions are gonna be replaced by AI and we are already seeing it and we're seeing that a lot of these companies now want their employees to be able to use AI and have AI literacy to make sure that they, you know, can be the most efficient workers and that it wouldn't make more sense to just replace them completely with AI. So that's definitely a big area that I'm seeing my peers struggling with.

And then also in terms of school, there's a lot of talk obviously about using AI for classwork and so it, there's an ethical struggle there because you know, sometimes it's, yeah, it's great for bouncing ideas off of and it's great for you know, organizing stuff, but then there's a question of when does it become the AI doing your work for you and how is that impacting your critical thinking skills? And you know, we're seeing that, you know, some job fields are feeling that the entry level individuals they are getting aren't as prepared as in the past. And a reason for this is possibly because of AI use and not having the same level of critical thinking skills. So there's that.

And then in terms of AI literacy, people would think that Gen Z, you know, has the best skills. They know how to use AI, they know how to avoid wrong answers, but in reality we're seeing that even though Gen Z is quite dependent on it, they're not able to catch when it's doing something wrong or giving a bad answer. So that's definitely detrimental as well.

But on the positive side of things, as kind of discussed AI for mental health support has been really great. I have a lot of friends who have, yeah, as kind of discussed use ChatGPT as their personal therapist as a friend. And we're seeing that this is a great kind of way for like entry level mental health help for people who either can't afford therapy or are a little hesitant to it. So it's a low, you know, entry point for mental health assistance, which I think can definitely spur a lot of change in terms of pushing individuals to seek out formal therapy eventually as well. And you know, there's no stigma, they're not worried about judgment, et cetera. And yeah, I think that's kind of the two main things. Yeah.

Moderator: That was really excellent, Alex, I also really like that barrier to entry point you made as being a hurdle to therapy and how there is potential, there is already potential that AI is like a way to jump that hurdle. Excellent.

Moderator: This is for Gil, career anxiety is one of Gen Z's biggest stressors, especially with AI reshaping the future of work. How is this showing up among students and what can colleges do to help them navigate that uncertainty?

Gil Perez: Yeah, so I'm definitely seeing career anxiety as a stressor of our students, especially with AI reshaping the future of our work. I think there's a lot of uncertainty about how AI will affect career choices and decisions that our students make. And I think what I'm seeing is that it is influencing them in a way where they're trying to see if there's a way to avoid it. So they're choosing more hands-on careers, healthcare, trade programs.

And what I'm also learning through our future summit today is that our, you know, a lot of our entire workforce is being reshaped by AI. So it's not something that they can necessarily avoid. So these are things that if we're, it's great if it's their intrinsic reason, but if their decision making is based on a perceived threat of AI, that's definitely worth exploring with our students.

I think also students already outside of AI may struggle with their sense of worth just as an individual. And so the systems that our students exist in can make students feel like they're not enough or that they're not doing enough. And so it's not uncommon for people to tie their self-worth to their work. Okay. And so if they're hearing that AI is taking over positions, there's this idea that AI has more value than people and that can create self-doubt, self-criticism, it can worsen anxieties, leaving people to really question their own value, what's left for them if AI can already do parts of their their job. And so career anxiety is not just about worries for stability and a good paying job, it's also about their identity and purpose.

And so I think our California community colleges, especially what I'm seeing throughout our summit, you know, we really are leading our AI revolution, creating new career narratives. And so hearing what's happening in the workforce development, I do feel hopeful hearing our students are the ones building the future. I also am hearing professors and how they're integrating AI literacy into their curriculum. And so there are ways we can learn to use AI ethically and work alongside it. I heard great examples of how professors are working with AI by having students really show how they use AI ethically and responsibly and not avoid it.

And so there are things like internships, career fairs, workshops, guest speakers. I think there's more opportunities we can utilize to bring industry experts to discuss how AI is shifting roles and what skills are most needed, what job options there are in the field, and how we can still continue to combine human creativity, critical thinking with the efficiency of AI. I think like, again, you're gonna hear this more than once for me, but like AI or not, I think our students, because they're still learning, there's a lot that they don't know about career fields 'cause they're not in them yet. There's a lot that they don't know about it, right? There's a lot of what they hear. And so I do think it's important for them to, you know, hear from the experts so that they can, which can also support some of that career anxiety around how AI is reshaping the fields, 'cause again, they're, the anxieties could promote them to want to run away, versus really address what skills they need to know to really compliment human work with AI.

I also think our educators need to continue to, you know, model a growth mindset by continuing our own professional development and AI so that we are keeping current with emerging technologies similar to making time to this last couple days for our summit. I'll quickly just give an example. Like when COVID first hit, there was a lot of fears of going virtual for like our mental health services in the CC system. People were like there's no way we can do telehealth. Like it was really only seen as a model of in-person care and we learned ethical telehealth use and that really transformed our mental health model and now it's a service we don't go without, right? Like it's increased access for our students. And I think this is something we can also adapt to regarding AI. And so I think our Gen Z students, they have the right to feel excited and nervous, but I think we want them to be able to see that there's room for both and all, right, so they can make room for their identity, their purpose and technology can coexist with it.

Moderator: Fantastic Gil, thank you. I also really like the perspective, I'm hearing this a lot from the panelists, like this access barrier, like this barrier to entry. If AI can remove that in terms of getting mental health help, I think that's incredible. Whether, you know, we may have our doubts about it, et cetera, but removing barriers to entry is what we, especially I feel like community colleges do best. So that's very interesting.

Moderator: This next question is for Xuan, Flourish is a purpose built research validated AI app for student mental health. Why AI and what opportunity do you see AI play in promoting student mental health?

Dr. Xuan Zhao: Awesome. I'll continue on access. So, well, one question is access for who, right? Because in the past when we think about therapy counseling, usually students who are already struggling and they may have been quietly sitting with the challenges for months and finally decide to reach out for help. And we know how long students sit with the challenges without asking for help.

So what's really cool about AI and this is how we think about mental health, is that mental health is a continuum. Like maybe 15% of people are in the red zone. They are deeply in a concerning state, maybe clinically depressed or anxious, they need professional support. But then there are, let's say 80% of people in the yellow zone or orange zone, maybe having their fair share of rejections or stress moments when they feel demotivated or stressed out, they may have conflict with their peers or their parents or their colleagues. And then they may also have at night have racing thoughts, can't fall into sleep. So they are not in the clinical side of things. They may not seek out for mental health support. Also because it can be expensive, the waiting time can be long. But with AI it can actually guide people to learn coping strategies and to make better sense of what they are going through and take actions to improve it, to move towards the green zone. So that's how we started thinking about AI.

So we founded Flourish with another colleague from Stanford, Department of Psychology. And the way we think about AI is not as AI therapist, I think that's the wrong way to think about AI. When whenever people say AI therapist, I'm like, no, no, no. At least that's not what we are building. It's actually how we think about AI as a recommendation engine. Think about it. So there has been decades of research in psychology, social psychology, positive psychology, a wide range of literature about science-based actions you can do to improve your mental health, your wellbeing, your social relationship to better connect with other people, find more motivation, overcome procrastination, as not reaching people. And oftentimes you have to go through some lots of books or listen to podcasts to find something that's relevant for you. But with AI you can ask AI a question about what you're going through right now and give you the most relevant knowledge and action. So that is the power that we think about AI. It surfaced the most relevant knowledge and action at the right time.

So with that, we actually founded Flourish towards the end of 2022 when ChatGPT came out. And that's how we have been approaching AI. So when we work with schools, usually we emphasize that this is mental health promotion, prevention and early intervention. So the deep work should be left to psychologists and therapists. But teaching coping strategies, helping students to stop spiraling and actually taking positive action, checking with them, build positive habits and celebrate them for showing up to all those good habits that I think AI can play a very unique role.

And one last thing I want to emphasize is at Flourish we call a what we are building, the AI is the STAR framework. So STAR stands for science-based. It needs to be grounded in empirical research. STAR, T is timely. So what's the most relevant knowledge and action and A is action. So no matter how much you talk with AI, if you don't take action or maybe you read books, listen to podcasts. If you don't take action, nothing's gonna change. You can read all the books about self care and still live, you know, still struggle with your wellbeing, have to take small actions even when you are spiraling, maybe just stop taking three deep breaths or when you are, you know, when you are struggling to get out of the bed, maybe just think about opening the window and just get some fresh air. So there are so many small things that can do that can really change the trajectory. So small actions, big impact. So that's A, and finally, R is real life focused. How can we nudge people to better connected with their friends, their communities, not just with AI? So that is how we think about AI, the unique role that AI plays in this innovation.

Moderator: Fabulous, fabulous.

Moderator: This next question is for Alex. You have conducted an independent research project on the Flourish app. Can you tell us what you found in the study and what you heard from your peers?

Alex Kraft: Yeah, so I had the opportunity to work with some Flourish pilot data with around 500 students surveyed, basically where we looked at the impacts of Flourish use versus a control. And one of the main outcomes we found was that there was a significant increase in positive motion or measured by positive effect, which is basically domains including calm, wellbeing, vigor. And with this analysis, I thought, I wonder what some moderators could be. Moderators are basically things that impact the significance, the strength of the relationship. And so in the fact that this was a college student sample, one thing that a lot of college students face is stress. So I said, hey, we have stress measured, we're taking baseline stress, we're taking measures of it throughout the study, let's compare it to the end result. And in this moderator analysis, we did actually find that stress was a significant moderator. And what this basically meant is that the individuals who used Flourish that had a greater baseline stress, they had greater improvements in their positive effect over this six week study period.

And I think this type of data is really interesting when you think about who these positive psychology tools are the most useful for. And in talking to my peers, I had a couple friends who actually partook in the study because it was done partially at my university. So that was cool. But it was interesting because the ones who I think had higher stress in their lives, who did feel they benefited the most Flourish, almost acted as a way to, you know, line out their life in a way that made it easier for them to handle everything, to evaluate what needed to be focused on, their schoolwork, their social life, their relationships. And then the individuals who, you know, felt like they handled their stress pretty well. The ones who felt like they didn't really need a wellness app to help, but you know, they were put in the experiment group, they didn't feel it was as useful, but it was still useful, 'cause we did see that there was generally a significant, you know, increase in positive effect over time. So just looking at that I think is really important when it comes to developing these apps as well and catering them to the individuals that do need them the most, such as high stress college students. So yeah.

Moderator: Fantastic. Thank you Alex.

Moderator: All right, we're gonna move on to a real world implementation question, but before we do, I'm just gonna say a little aside. So I would say I'm a bit of a curmudgeon when it comes to AI and mental wellness. I think that I've definitely, I'm clinically depressed so I fall on that 15% and I've been using the Flourish app for about the past two weeks in preparation for this panel, I did not know that. And I will say that I was really encouraged because as Xuan mentioned, the first point in STAR being science-backed, there are mental health applications out there that run on AI that aren't science-based, they're not built by researchers, et cetera, et cetera. And I think that it's important to note the importance of having people who know what they're doing, develop these types of things. We see that a lot in AI literacy, not using it isn't a really good option, students are gonna use it. So directing them to tools that are gonna be research-based and science-based as a researcher, I really appreciate that.

And the other couple of points about prevention and intervention, like catching them where they're at. I mean I found it to be quite frankly, really useful. I mean I was really not motivated to work out the last week, but Flourish was like, what if we reframed this positively and what if instead of putting all this pressure on yourself to do an hour workout, you just like did it felt good and moved your body a little bit? And it helped, it did because it just, it was like a quick reframe when I needed it. So I like the point that like we still have those groups that they're gonna need professional counseling, right? Like this is not a replacement to that, but I like that Flourish doesn't position or posit itself as that, it's an intervention app. And yeah, I really am as a curmudgeon, I really enjoyed it. So I just wanted to have that aside really quick.

Moderator: Alright, so this is our real world implementation question. This is for Xuan. You've partnered with colleges like Foothill. In fact, we've received a testimonial from Alexis Donato, department chair of the health center. She's in a mandatory training and wasn't able to be here today. She was supposed to be on the panel, but she provided a two page letter of support for this. And here's a paragraph that I found intriguing, which I'm gonna read to you all now.

Moderator: "In our ongoing search for evidence-based, scalable and cost-effective tools to enhance student mental wellbeing, Flourish has stood out as a best in-class solution. While we have explored various digital mental health platforms, Flourish is one of the few that seamlessly integrates behavioral science, emotion regulation strategies and proactive digital engagement into a platform that feels accessible and affirming to community college students. The app is not just a repository of tools," that is true, I've used it, "It's a self-learning companion that meets students where they're at and supports them in building healthier habits, managing stress and cultivating resilience. With its AI powered companion, Sunny Flourish brings warmth and encouragement to a process of mental health support, something that is especially critical for students who may not feel comfortable accessing traditional services or who are underserved by the existing systems." So with that note in mind, Xuan, what have you learned from those collaborations and about what makes digital mental health intervention succeed or fail on campuses?

Dr. Xuan Zhao: Thank you. I'm blushing right now. It's not a easy path, definitely not. Building startup, building a product and trying to figure out how to promote it. It's all new things I've been learning over the years and I'm so grateful for our campus partners for supporting us such as Foothill. They are the very first campus partner, now we've reached over 200 campuses and we have official school-wide collaborations, partnerships with almost 10 different universities and colleges. Foothill remains to have a very special place in my heart because they were the first one to jump on board.

I think what we have learned, one is the product has to be really engaging. The reason why Foothill decided to go with us is because they had a mental health app before and students were not engaging with it and it felt very corporate like, so it feels, it doesn't vibe with Gen Z. So when they brought Flourish they gave this to students and students tested out, oh by the way, if you can also try it out, it's just on the App Store or Google Play, you can search Flourish, you'll see how cute it is. We're shamelessly cute. So this Sunny, also this is Sunny, this little sun character. So we chose the sun as this metaphor, the companion because we are both like sun giving warmth to other people and we also like plants receiving the warmth from other people as we grow. So we really like this sun character and we have really waved this whole metaphor into this entire app and also have so many engaging animations, badges, you know, progress tracker, habit building, you know, so all of those is to create this sense that wellbeing is not something so heavy and so sad when you know, it's the turning this deficit based model narrative about mental health around to mental wellness, right? So a strengths based approach, public health approach. So that's how I think that really helps Flourish stand out. And this is similar, we have heard similar stories from other campuses.

So for example, Villanova University, they on the east coast, they have a really strong sport team. Do we have alumni there?

Audience: My daughter.

Dr. Xuan Zhao: Your daughter, a Villanova parent. Yes, awesome, awesome. So Villanova chose Flourish because you are using another mental health app for the past two years and the utilization was low and then they decided to run a pilot. So actually they had 50 students committed to running the pilot with them. And then they give students three different apps that they've narrowed down. Two of them are AI mental health and another one or AI wellbeing like, so just want to make sure it's not therapy. So two AI wellbeing and the other one is their current app.

And they gave students, try them for four weeks and ask students which they liked better, would recommend to the school. It turns out 76% of the students chose Flourish and 18% chose the other AI app and 4% chose their current app. So it was a no brainer for them to switch. And that's the kind of, you know, stories we've been hearing in the field that students, schools nowadays are getting much more sophisticated. They listen to students, they let students try it rather than the school look at some products and fall in love with a sales pitch. I'm like, that sounds pretty amazing for my students.

So I think that has been our strategy. Another one I would say is truly a campus partnership. And when we think about partnership, we are not just talking about counseling center or mental health promotion office, we work with res life with athletics department, with faculty. We even created this Flourish challenge. So basically faculty member that we have a plug and play slide deck, if they encourage students to use the Flourish app to practice wellbeing exercises for 14 days, students get extra credit in their class, incredibly motivating. And the students oftentimes, and they even sometimes the professors ask 'em to write a little reflection essay about what they've learned about their wellbeing.

And oftentimes it was so say something like, oh I was initially very skeptical about this app and then I started using it. I actually used very helpful and now I've learned how to breathe better and how I can actually use Pomodoro timer. So to you know, so all the time management, someone even wrote something like, oh I think I may actually fail this class if I didn't learn how to manage my anxiety before test. So all of these are, I would say just think about think out of the box, not just mental health counseling center, but also how can you partner with different stakeholders on the student affairs side, on the academic affairs side to really make sure that we meet students where they are.

Moderator: Fantastic.

Dr. Xuan Zhao: Oh, can I add one last thing?

Moderator: Yeah, go ahead.

Dr. Xuan Zhao: Okay, so Gil, you can speak to this, it's not just the app but also how to show up as physical things. So for example, we have created the mood map and then schools, they love it's RAs like they line up to get a mood map for their dorm. So basically mood map is, you can pin your mood on a map and then other people can also pin their mood. So it's a way to anonymously connect with each other and see how the building or how the classroom is feeling and the pins, the Sunny, like the stickers obviously.

But recently we even created like students struggle with time management. So we created daily planner with, you know, three priorities and then make a splash. And then this is three good things. This is one of the most classic positive psychology exercise. It's really simple but powerful. It's write down three things, big or small that put a smile on your face today. If we had more time, I would definitely encourage you to all do this and tell each other actually writing it down is one part and then how to share this and positivity, resonance, that's another huge part. So we even created like notepads. So bringing these two mental health promotion events, tabling events and really stand out students feel that mental health is not just, you know, counseling, therapy, something I think of as an afterthought, but now things I can do in my daily life.

Moderator: Fantastic, thank you.

Moderator: This next question was directed at me for this panel and it's from your work across the CCC system. What lessons or practices do you think are most critical to scale statewide or nationally? So I'll bring it back to the point of mental health specifically, which is what we're talking about today. I think you'll get really sick of hearing this by the end of this talk and most talks here, but it really is coming down to AI literacy.

I just was in a law enforcement panel talking about how they're using AI and law enforcement, which I have misgivings about, but I understand why they're going that direction. And something they talked a lot about was not just implementing it but training the people on how to use it critically that are gonna be using it in law enforcement. That is such an important point. We need to start scaling AI literacy on the college campuses nationally. I'd like, you know, internationally, et cetera, et cetera. That's something we're trying really hard to do with the AI fellows program at the state chancellor's office.

But in regards to mental health, it's the same, literacy pieces apply, students need to know the four main pillars, which are technical. How does AI work? Like fundamentally practical, what tool is the best tool to use? There's lots of AI tools. Evaluative, how do I evaluate the things AI gives me? And then ethical, what are the ethical considerations of using AI tools. And for mental health? I think the practical pillar is really important because students are using it and right now they are primarily using ChatGPT. And we're gonna get to a couple questions a little bit later that highlight why that's not a really good use case for ChatGPT. So teaching students that they have options, teaching them that there's different places they can go to use AI, there's not all AI is created equal, there's better AI.

And then I wanted to make a point piggybacking off what Xuan said about talking about mental health and kind of baking it into our lives and not treating it as a separate thing that like happens in the counseling center. My dean, every time we, she comes into the office and she goes, okay everyone gimme your number. And she's been doing this for about a year and the number is a one to 10 scale and there's a thing on the wall that I highlights, like, here's what a one means, I'm not well, I'm not doing good. Here's what a two is, here's what a three is, here's four. No one's forced to participate, but this is just something my dean does to kind of get a check like, how are you guys doing? What do you need? Someone came in, they were like, I'm a one, she said, go home, you need a break. And it's helpful because it kind of destigmatizes this approach to mental health because we're all struggling with it, but it's like we have to be struggling really bad before there are resources. And that's why I think students are turning to things like AI because they're just struggling kind of in a, they're just kind of all right here constantly and they're looking for resources but it's hard for them to make that big jump to like the formal resources that seem a little a little bit more intimidating.

So, literacy, they are gonna use it. Let's tell them that they have options and maybe why ChatGPT isn't the best one.

Moderator: Alright, AI risks and responsibility. This is for all of the panelists and this question's a bit long but worth reading. So I'm gonna read this one. Recent headlines have raised alarms about using GenAI products for mental health, including lawsuits from parents claiming that ChatGPT and Character AI contributed to suicide. A Harvard study showing that many AI companions engage in emotional manipulation and growing reports of AI psychosis where overly sycophantic chatbots fail to challenge users. Given these real risks, what responsibility do colleges have to teach AI literacy for mental health, helping students understand both the potential and the dangers of turning to generative AI? Go ahead Gil.

Gil Perez: Okay, I'll start. So first I'll mention just that our, these AI systems, we know they offer interpretations of our moods, our thoughts, our intentions. They can, earlier I mentioned, they can offer emotional support by comforting validating our emotions. They can walk users even through difficult situations and they also reflect the emotional tone of a user's message, responding with possibly happier messages when users are happy or with sadder ones when users are sad.

I think what comes up for me as a therapist is this more of this deeper question of how much of our inner world is being outsourced. And so AI then becomes a tool that we use to understand ourselves. And so I see so often students use ChatGPT to tell them about themselves. And it's not just ChatGPT, think astrology, think tarot, right? They constantly wanna find meaning and understanding through very, these are all valid avenues to explore, have self inspection, self-discovery, but there also needs to be room for contradictions. Okay? And so instead some users may accept summaries as accurate or insightful accounts of who they are or what they should do.

And so yes, there is this part of AI literacy of helping our students understand that AI may display emotions or responses that may not fit the true emotion of what they're experiencing. So there's this part of educating students about the role of AI, what it's for, what it's not for. I think app developers also need to implement features that make room for personal interpretations of data, including counter arguments of recommendations that AI might provide. So yes, there are safeguards that are critical that need to be put in place and I also don't want us as people to, and faculty, staff and administrators to forget our responsibility at the ground level to foster community and connection so that students also turn to us for support and not only feel like they can go to ChatGPT for emotional support.

Again, these are different access points. I'm not saying don't tell them not to use it, but there's a reason they're turning to it. So I think we also have to think about the community that we're building at the ground level, both in and out of the classroom. And that urges all of us to continue to do our work. So when we become faculty, staff and administrators, we're not immune to our past experiences that have conditioned or shaped us and our beliefs about mental health, right? For example, if you are socialized or conditioned to see emotions as a sign of weakness, that does not go away because you're now a leader in higher ed. So I just want us to think about what we're possibly modeling subconsciously, how does that ripple in and out of the classroom environment.

And then I wanna mention something that you mentioned also, like in the classroom, how the professor was supporting that student. They sort of did like a test of like what is your emotions and name it and provided that support. So again, mental health doesn't have to be the therapist's problem. If we hear mental health, sometimes we might feel like let me refer this student over to counseling. That might not even be the first step the student wants to take first of all. But in your role, right, like as a faculty for example, you can support their mental health with things that are in your control. Let them take a day off from class, give them extra time on an assignment, et cetera. Those are things that students come to us and then we end up supporting their advocacy skills to ensure that they're able to then advocate for their needs with their professors.

So, and connecting also to like the Flourish app, another way I want you all to see it is that there's like a continuum of care, right? So there's prevention, there's early intervention, there's treatment and there's referral. So therapy is not the default. It could be a first step, but it's not always a first step. There's stigma, there's access issues, there's barriers, there's reasons why that might not be the first step for folks. And so we do need options for support and I think we can all, I think even with like through professional development and other avenues gain, you know, more skills around how to support our students' mental health with our expertise in mind and the roles that we're engaging in.

Alex Kraft: I have something quick to add. Oh or unless you wanna go. Oh yeah, okay.

Dr. Xuan Zhao: Well Gil painted a very optimistic picture. So I want to get to the risks a bit more because that's something we think about day in, day out, I'll share what I think we are doing well and what I think we struggle with. So the risk is real, the suicide cases, AI psychosis now in lots of headlines.

So what we've been doing much better than many other products, including ChatGPT, is that we have stronger clinical safety guardrail and features more tailored for mental health support. So I'll give two examples. One is most of the apps when you disclose suicidal ideation, right? Which is surprisingly common. Sometimes even I say, ugh, I just wish, you know, I don't have to wake up tomorrow. And then you know, the AI could detect that as suicidal ideation, but it's, I mean sometimes people are just really unhappy. So right now what AI does is just tell you, hey, there's number 988, call this number. But the problem is probably 1% of people will actually call that number. Most people won't actually do it. So how can you do better than that?

So what we have done of a couple of things, one is when we work with schools, we actually incorporate school counseling center and other resources into the app and recommend these are some other resources, local resources you can reach out to. And this is what you can say when you reach out to ask for help. And another one is a feature called safety planning. This is a very well established practice in suicide prevention is that when you know, that someone may struggle with actually depression, then safety planning and say what are your happy thoughts? What are some safe people? What are some safe places? What are some effective coping strategies for you? So our AI will actually collect that information and next time when you experience similar situation, we'll actually use something that you've shared in your safety plan to remind you of the safe people you have to the safe places you can go to. So it's not just call 988. So to my best knowledge, no other AI products do this yet, but I'm surprised because it's such a common practice in counseling. I think it's the therapy, that kind of supervision that we get from our advisors that really helps.

And on top of that we also have a review system, we are developing a human in the loop review system. So for the cases that are high risk, all the go through a AI mental health evaluator. So if there are risks, then we grade them, no, we, the AI automatically grade them into low, medium, and high for the high risks. Then we have human reviewers trained professionals to look at them to make sure that the AI is handling it as well. And also even escalate to our clinical psychologist.

So what we have been exploring for the next step is how we can actually, maybe even for the clinical psychologist to provide a note to this person in crisis state, like what they can, you know, really should do, 'cause oftentimes AI tell them you should seek a professional or seek professional support, but they may not follow if we can find ways. So this is on the very kind of cutting edge of product design development is how can we strike the right balance between safety and privacy, that, you know, the conversation that go through mental health monitor system, they are all de-identified. There's no identifier, no place, no names, but still, you know, how can you ensure that if there is someone who is going through a critical condition, how can you actually do something more to let them know that they have options, right?

So those are I think, conversations that we are having inside. And I recently launched a blog post called "AI Mental Health Dilemmas". So a lots of folks in the industry has been subscribing to this blog post, blog series. So now have real pressure to actually write it 'cause I just announced it and then lots of people are subscribed. So these are the things like day in, day out in the trenches, like for example, AI psychosis, how does it happen? What kind of language actually make people become more delusional? So those are the kind of things that we consider in our daily life. So that's what I would say we are doing relatively well. What we are not doing very well, which is you've been highlighting a few times, is AI literacy. We haven't gone outside to tell people why you should be careful with choosing AI products. So I definitely know after this conversation I'm thinking about whether we should have some webinars with students for parents, for educators to talk a little bit about, you know, different types of AI products, AI companions, general AI assistant, more purpose-built AI agent, how they are different and what kind of support and clinical safety is behind it, so. Pass it.

Alex Kraft: I'll be very quick so we can get onto the next questions with enough time. Just like a personal anecdote with things like people using AI that isn't really meant for mental health support and getting, you know, answers that might lead to something like becoming more suicidal or just not feeling supported. Like I think with AI literacy, it's super important that not only obviously technology like Flourish is made where it's able to, you know, take into account some of your coping mechanisms and you know, guide you to them rather than just saying call 988. But also that people know how to cater AI to give useful feedback.

So I have a friend who has like basically told ChatGPT you know, play devil's advocate. Like don't just tell me I'm right, don't just tell me that I am, you know, I am actually justified in doing this because a lot of AI systems are coded in a way where they're supposed to appease you, they wanna be friendly. And a lot of times, you know, you could basically justify doing something really bad to someone be like, but I was right because I felt this way, right? And AI will sometimes agree you are, but you're not. If you asked any human being, they'd be like, no, that wasn't good actually, and here's why. So we have really biased lenses obviously in our own and everyone does when we do something bad. And a big risk is that when we are feeding that to AI, it can't tell if you're being truthful or if you have a biased lens of yourself. So I think yeah, like things like Flourish and that type of development is really important to see for future AI. So it's, you know, useful rather than risky.

Moderator: Really, really, really good anecdote, Alex, because it's like in the term echo chamber comes to mind and the only way we're gonna avoid an echo chamber, all AI is an echo chamber unless it is specifically designed not to be an echo chamber. That has to be like a decision made by the developers in the initial creation of the product. Excellent anecdote.

Moderator: So for time, we are gonna skip right to the final question here, and I'm gonna ask you all to be brief, not just for time, but because I really am curious from all of your different areas of expertise, what a really, what your really succinct answer to this final question. If this is the last thing you got to say on this panel, which is if you could leave one key message for educators and policy makers about supporting Gen Z mental health in the age of AI, what would that one thing be?

Gil Perez: Yeah, I think when it comes to developing mental health support policies and programs, I think it's really important that the voices of those with lived experiences have a seat at the table and are part of the decision making. There's a saying in harm reduction, they say nothing about us without us. So anything that we design or make for our students, we need to build with 'em. And I'm really excited that they're part of the AI revolution, especially hearing more about like workforce development and internships for students. I'm continuing to see that our students are part of the solution and are part of our future.

And then also I want us to continue to learn from AI because people, our students are turning to AI because we desire connection, meaning, and care, but we also know AI, you know, can't really love us back. They can't substitute that real human connection. So I want us to think about how we can train our educators, you know, not just in instruction, but in connection, compassion, and collective wellbeing. Because this work isn't meant to just be transactional. So I want us to think about how we can also measure strength of relationships and not just comprehension of course material that of course is tied to our student learning outcomes. So I really invite our faculty, staff and administrators to consider how we can foster genuine human connection in and out of the classroom to support student success.

Dr. Xuan Zhao: So my short answer would be meet students where they are, not every student need therapy, but every student need to learn skills to regulate stress, to regulate emotion, to better connect with each other, to cope with difficult life events. So really think about how AI could play a role there, I would say. And also to nudge people to take small actions, not just talk, but actually move them to take actions will actually create positive change.

Alex Kraft: Yeah. And well they very well address the mental health side of things, for the educators, people who are having to navigate the world of teaching and AI and how they need to change their teaching. I think it's so important that there's willingness for teachers and you know, just schools overall to change how they're training kids for entering the job market. I think making sure that the skills that are being taught are not the ones that AI can do. They don't just need to learn data entry, they don't just need to learn how to run code. They need to learn how to use critical thinking and work as a team and work with mentors and do the human things that make an individual valuable in the job field. So being an educator that is capable of properly training their students to do that, I think is incredibly important in the coming years.

Moderator: Fabulous. Thank you all so much. Fantastic. I was also gonna say give y'all, give yourself a hand because you care, right? You showed up, you're doing the work, which is the important part. We do have a few minutes for questions. If anyone had any questions, I'll run a mic to you. And I know we have a break right after this, so we are happy to stay back. I think all the panelists are willing to stay like an extra five, 10 minutes if we go a little over. That's up to you guys. Are there any questions? Yes. I saw this hand go up first, so I'm gonna run you a mic.

Audience: I'm loud.

Moderator: You're loud, okay. Go pop off, queen go.

Audience: So I have really enjoyed this panel. Thank you guys. My question is, so I work at a nonprofit, we're trying to understand how are young people like thinking about AI about their running career. And a really big thing I've been seeing, and I was just reading an article about it yesterday, is a lot of Gen Z's reporting is really intense, almost existential anxiety in fear because of AI's presence. So this feeling of like, what is the value of my, you know, all of that. And I'm also Gen Z, so I'm pulling too. And so my question is, when we're thinking about interventions with AI that can be positive on young people's mental wellbeing, how do you guys think about kind of negotiating that and to like alongside the potential that AI as a whole might also just be something really anxious about?

Dr. Xuan Zhao: Well, my quick reaction is they are both really anxious about AI and using AI tools a lot. So I think in this very specific case, we emphasize that it's interesting sometimes when we promote the Flourish app, we don't even talk about the AI because there are several reasons, not just the AI, the anxiety that just comes with the word, but also some people feel that, and I totally agree that AI is to not to replace human relationship. And that's oftentimes because they don't know how we do it. Like Flourish app, we actually encourage you to reach out to other friends, give compliments, express, gratitude, all that. So what we have been doing is to tell students these are, this is your safe private space to heal, to learn and to grow. And that's for some people that the word space really matters. It's like I get this personal space AI or not, that's not really important. But the important thing is I have a place to reflect. So that's how we've been trying to, at least when from the mental health promotion aspect, try to go around that challenge.

Moderator: There was another hand.

Alex Kraft: Yeah, there was another hand.

Moderator: Yeah.

Audience Question: So I have two questions, one is…

Dr. Xuan Zhao: I love it. I'll answer the second question and then the first one. The second one is absolutely faculty. So faculty wellbeing is so important 'cause it impacts student wellbeing, how faculty show up in the classroom. Faculty wellbeing is really important. It's how leaders show up. They impacts people. This is called ripple effect. Actually, the person with higher power actually has a greater impact on the people around them. So teachers for sure. Faculty for sure.

So it's interesting for Foothill College and also some other community colleges who work with us Flourish is available to the entire campus, not just students. And it's interesting 'cause in their pilot they also invited, well staff in this case to try the Flourish app for student it was 76% or 78% or 76 for Villanova University among students for, but for staff it was 100% preferred Flourish. So they actually use it quite a bit. And we, another school, fun fact, they decided to engage with Flourish because their president heard about the Flourish app and has been using it. And so has been bugging the dean of students. Like, what about bring this app to our school? So yes, that's the answer, like, long answer to this question. So yes, staff and faculty. Thank you for bringing it up.

The question about data privacy, so for us, I can share what we have. So end-to-end encryption. So data encryption, we have HIPA compliance and GDPR compliance, we have role-based access control. So for example, the conversation, the chat, yes, there are humans who can access it, but the humans are all authorized and they have training. So, and also that must access through VPN. So the train, for example, psychologists can access de-identified chat history to monitor the chat behavior to make sure that Sunny is behaving as intended and providing feedback to improve the product. I'm skeptical of the company who say, we never look at your data. I'm like, how do you even know if your chatbot is doing well if you never look at the data. But there should be multiple layers of protection to make sure that we don't know who this person is. And we just here to evaluate whether the chatbot is providing the good response support.

So that, and then one dilemma that I'll write up in one of the blog posts is safety and privacy. When do you actually sacrifice privacy for safety? So in this case, the common practice is if that person has not just suicidal ideation, that doesn't count. It has to be actual eminent risk. That person has the intent, has the means, has the, you know, the plan. And then at that point it is you have to report this case whether it's self harm or harming other person, other people. So that's where safety has to be prioritized. With that said, we haven't reached that case yet. So we're still building up like what are we gonna, eventually, what happens, so it's still building the pipeline to make sure that we protect for that.

Gil Perez: And then also just really quick to figure out who that data goes to if they're an imminent threat to self or others, you know, counselors, were not available 24/7. We work during business hours. And so if there's a student who's an imminent threat to self or others at like 9:00 PM 2:00 AM we, that data can't come to us 'cause we won't be able to get to it until we we get to it. So I think there is this, that's why it requires a partnership between the campus partners and, you know, the app that we're partnering with, 'cause we, yeah, we need to balance privacy and student safety. And I think that's something that apps are still figuring out. There's a lot of apps that reach out to like our mental health counseling department. And when we pose these questions, it's, I realize there's oftentimes they haven't even thought about these questions. And so I think it's important that, yeah, mental health professionals are part of the design process. I think that piece is really important. I think developers there are good intentions and I think there are also blind spots and that's why we have to incorporate more of a multidisciplinary team to ensure that, it's doing what it's supposed to, what it's meant for, for users.

Moderator: And then just to add really quick, a combination of those, 'cause I feel like these questions are actually related. The first two questions that were asked, it's like this general anxiety and then also bringing faculty into it. We always separate everyone into buckets, faculty, admin, da, da, da. But these AI fears aren't separated. We all have the same ones, like pretty fundamentally. So two, I feel like the fears I hear from not only faculty and students is economic. Is this gonna replace me? And then the second one is like just a fear of it in general, like terminator-esque type fears.

And so I'll say something, my president, my college says all the time, AI will not replace you. Someone with AI skills might. That's the truth. That's the bottom line. AI won't replace you. Someone with AI skills might. So learning how to tread this like careful balance of leveling up our AI skills, not avoiding it, but also being critical of it. Understanding what we need to have to evaluate it. And also taking stock of our wellbeing around AI, 'cause this is really anxiety inducing. I mean that's why we're having this panel. People are scared and yes, we're using AI to help alleviate, but now it's like turtles all the way down. So I get it. This is a complicated problem. So I think continuing to have those conversations and not to beat a dead horse, but it's literacy. What is this? How does it actually work? How do I deploy it and how do I make sure I'm economically viable while also being able to sleep at night? Because there's ethical considerations with AI. Knowledge is power. Power is agency. We have to be empowered to make our own choices critically. So these are fantastic questions. I think we have time for one or two more. Any other questions? You guys are geniuses. Thank you.

Dr. Xuan Zhao: Thank you.

Alex Kraft: Thank you.

Moderator: I was also gonna say give y'all, give yourself a hand because you care, right? You showed up, you're doing the work, which is the important part. We do have a few minutes for questions. If anyone had any questions, I'll run a mic to you. And I know we have a break right after this, so we are happy to stay back. I think all the panelists are willing to stay like an extra five, 10 minutes if we go a little over. That's up to you guys. Are there any questions?
