**Don Daves-Rougeaux**
Good afternoon everyone. Once again, Don Daves-Rougeaux, Senior Advisor to Chancellor Christian's Office, Workforce Economic Development, Strategic Partnerships, and part of the generative AI team led by Craig Hayward.

Really super excited about our concluding panel for today. And I want to, before we jump into that panel, I wanna take a little bit of time to orient ourselves to some of the work and connections to last year's summit, and then introduce one of our key partners.

So last year, well, let me start here. I would say this, so part of what we want you to do here is to build relationships, to network, to meet people. We want our college faculty and classified professionals and administrators to connect with our industry partners, with our partners in labor and state agencies, but also with partners who are here from other higher ed institutions, or even our K-12 partners who may be here.

Last year, we had an opportunity to pilot or demo a very specific tool. And that opportunity came as result of just a single conversation that we were having in a hallway. It was very opportune as well, because we happened to be having our faculty professional development committee that was going to be meeting on Friday, and that actually will be happening again this year. On Friday, that group will continue to convene and think about how we do professional development for our faculty across the system.

And so we were able to start up that conversation in passing. And I am known as well, I always say this, but I'm trying to change my vernacular on this because of climate, but you know, I'm a boil the ocean kind of person. I like to run really fast with cautionary guardrails, but I like to go. So I tried to change it to green, the desert, but then I thought, there's nothing wrong with desert environments as well, so I gotta get away from that. So we're just gonna change things really fast, okay? A lot of things at the same time, really fast in our system.

So I approached now Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, James Todd, and I said, "Hey James," and another faculty member's on that committee, Michelle, and I said, "Hey James, can I just take one hour of your six hour meeting time? Just one hour, one hour is all we need." He said, "Don." If you know James, he's like, "Don." And I said, "Okay, how about 45 minutes?" He said, "Okay, let me go check with the committee." And the committee said, "Yes." And as it were, we already had two of our faculty members on that professional development committee who were innovators in our system that were already using the tool. So I got those two faculty members with our guests member I'm gonna bring up now, and they said, we will use that 45 minutes and we will demo this project.

And as a result of that, we were able to launch the Playlab pilot and Playlab took off with the level of enthusiasm that we could never have imagined in that moment. We sent out an interest form and in 10 days we had 879 people sign up saying that they were interested in doing a Playlab, a professional learning community. 454 of those 800 plus folks who signed up, and these are classified professionals, faculty, et cetera, actually went through that professional learning community.

And this is the power of moving at the pace of innovation, having a bias for action. My mom would always say, "Maybe," and I never knew if maybe meant yes or no. More often than not, it meant no, but occasionally gave me time to negotiate to get to yes. But if we act with the bias of action, even if we are uncertain around what the results might be, we might find that innovation is at our fingertips. And that there are folks in our system who are hungry for these kinds of experiments and opportunities. And we act with the reality that we might fail, right? And we can't be afraid to fail.

I was a hurdler in high school and college. The first time I went over a hurdle, I literally fell on my face. That's 'cause I raised the hurdle way too high, 'cause I didn't know that you could put them down lower. I learned that, maybe start with a low bar. But all that to be said, it was a great moment in time. And we have done some great work with Playlab since that time.

And I'm pleased to be able to bring to you today, to the stage, my partner in crime who is a faculty member at UC Berkeley in the Graduate School of Education and leads UC Berkeley's Changemaker program. And you may have heard us talk about our AI Fellows and then we also have this other group called our AI Changemakers who are folks who applied to be fellows. But despite their incredible talent, we just didn't have enough space. So we reached out to them and said, we would like for you to stay involved in this, figure out a way to engage you. And I know there are some of the Changemakers that are here in the audience today.

And I was very intentional about using that term Changemakers because I wanted to think down the road. I'm a gamer. So gamers we're all about down board thinking and knowing that at some point down the road we would want to build a formal partnership with UC Berkeley, and their Changemaker program. And so those conversations are in play and if when we get there, we will have already built a cohort and a cadre of faculty of classified professionals, and administrators in our system, across our entire system to lean into that partnership with depth.

So at this time, I'd like to go ahead and bring up to stage, Dr. Christyna Serrano, also known as Dr. C. And she will talk a little bit about what that partnership looks like from the side of UC Berkeley. Dr. C.

**Dr. Christyna Serrano (Dr. C)**
Hi everybody. Okay, so first I want to start this conversation off with saying I'm the product of a community college. Thank you. I was first in my family to go to college and I went to Hartnell College and then transferred to UC Berkeley. Woo-hoo. Go Panthers and Go Bears.

And I apologize, my slides are text heavy and this is a no no, we know this, right? This is a no no, so I apologize, but you know, we got lots of things going on. So try and ignore my slides and hopefully you'll hear the story, which is, I can't walk, I wanna walk, but then like there's no mic.

So this is a true privilege and an honor. So a year ago I was at the first Future Summit and I was a participant. And as Don was describing, he and I had chatted about, okay, how can we do this work together? And I got a chance to shout out to Havi and Scotty, if you're here. Woo-hoo.

We basically, Havi and I were both in the Relay Graduate School of Education's Playlab Professional Learning Community. And from there I saw how powerful of a tool it was. And so one of my classes that I teach at Berkeley in the School of Ed, it's called Critical Studies and Education, partners students with social impact ed tech organizations, so they can do a Changemaker project. And the goal of these projects is to really show students that you can have an impact in the field of education beyond traditional classroom teaching, which is great, but it invites people to consider how they are always educators and learners all at the same time.

But also the grind that it takes to be in the field and to learn skills around what we call the three C's in the work of Changemaker, critical thinking, communication, and collaboration. So Playlab was one of those partners that year. 'Cause I felt like it was such a powerful tool and I'd asked Yusef, who's our co-founder, what are you trying to do? What goal can I help you advance that would also give my students an opportunity to do this work, to do this really important work that we're doing at Playlab now?

And they were not initially a higher education sort of focused platform. It was K-12 and they were growing organically from there. And so then I said, "Hey John, I have a project for you. What do you think?" And so hence began this year long journey. It's crazy because I used to work at Stanford as Director of Early Career Online Business Education, but I recently left Stanford in order to join Playlab as head of community learning and growth as part of this journey. So I'm really excited to be here with you today and talk about what we're doing. And hopefully, I'll just get the opportunity. I hope you'll say hi to me. I hope you'll reach out to me. I'm so interested in collaborating with you.

But about Playlab, for those of you that might not born, it was born in 2022, it was actually, there was a product that was for the team, the founding team, they made something on GPT 3 that was founded by Google and that achieved acquisition. But the team started to notice that despite the success in these commercial AI and research applications that they were doing at MIT, educators weren't really using them. So that's when Playlab was founded because it was this notion that educators shouldn't be passed down ed tech tools and not have a say in sort of determining like what do these tools do for us, but be creators of these tools rather than just passive recipients.

So what happened was when they sort of gave educators the tools in terms of being able to build their own chatbots or own AI tools in order to solve problems in specific contexts, that these were really powerful things that educators were building to solve these problems. And they were really cracking like the nut, you could say, of how do we solve like some wicked problems in the classroom, not all the way, but really starting to make some headway and how can you use this application in these particular ways. So it really created some fundamental shifts around how teaching and learning has started to happen. And we're seeing that a lot with Playlab.

So the thing that also is really important to know about Playlab is it's a non-profit organization. And one of the reasons that Playlab is a non-profit organization is because we're really mindful, very thoughtful about how do we protect our young people and protect really what's the responsibility, right, of like this technology is very disruptive and how do we support our educators in being able to manage it, to think about how to integrate it.

And so one of the things was like, hey, our systems are already, like pedagogy as an educator, it's already kind of broken, right? The systems are already hard. Education is, there's already systems in place that aren't always serving students and AI can, unfortunately, just kind of reinforce that and exacerbate it further. So premature scaling is really not something we wanted to do. If you do so, it can just really over fit into an already broken system and kind of further exacerbate that and create real harm.

So in this case, we wanted to create something that enabled people to play, to feel curious and feel safe because Playlab is a school safe platform. So even though you can run your tools on all the models, all the foundational models like ChatGPT 3 or ChatGPT, sorry, Anthropic's Claude, none of that data gets seen when you're in the play space. And we wanted people to feel comfortable to experiment and to co-create with their students. So it's your ability to, even if you're using Google Gemini or you're using ChatGPT, even if you create a bot in those contexts, you can never look under the hood, you can't see the conversations, you can't collectively build with people. It is a very specifically built for educators and by educators tool.

So we just saw the creative power that this global community of educators have built, the kinds of tools that have come out of it. And so being a nonprofit enables us to think about what is the public infrastructure that we can create, where we can democratize access to these tools and where we can cultivate voices for our students and our educators who can have a say in what this future should be and have the skills to be able to navigate that future workforce where it's really a much more about machine/human collaboration. As head counts start to go down, there's more management that has to happen in the future of work where your team members are essentially agentic AI tools.

All right, so with that we have an official announcement. So what was initially a pilot and it was crazy, we were all working for free, ask Miya. And it was all volunteer and all of you that were in that cohort, I appreciate you, and that was all voluntary. So as Don said, it was about 800 folks interested, but we ended up with 400 plus faculty and staff in a four week series of a professional learning community. And it's amazing how much has come from that. And I think many of the AI fellows are pretty much Playlabbers. Many of you may be using it in your classroom already. And so it's really representative of a partnership that is meant to be built on trust, collaboration, and shared values rather than a top down kind of technology implementation.

So our approach is really about how do we build tools. So you guys use it, you start asking me. I was just having conversation with Bobby that like, hey, can we have this attribution, right, where, you know, it's a new form of scholarship. These bots are running on systems prompts which reflect the metacognition that we're having to develop in our students, for example. And as you author these chatbots that are solving real problems in your context and other folks remix it because we're set up as a community of practice, how do we keep that line going?

But additionally, so many, you know, chatbots are remixed and used for silo bot for just all kinds of functionality and it's really helping others across the classroom. And so as people are building things, I just love how much they say, "You know, it'd be really cool if it could do this." And so our small engineering team at Playlab works really hard to basically be responsive to the feedback that you're giving us of like, "I really wish it could do this in my classroom. If it could do this, it would be a game changer." So that's how we're building essentially in collaboration with educators like yourself and staff like yourself in order to improve what the future of education and work looks like.

So I have three strategies that I'm gonna tell you about, about how we're deploying this at a much larger scale across the system, even though the 400 plus faculty represented the full state of California and all the colleges within it. I'm just gonna go straight to these slides.

So the first pillar is kind of this comprehensive learning experience. So what we do is this one-on-one series where you're doing a foundational sort of, this is what generative AI is, and this is how you build a system prompts, and this is how you configure a chatbot so that it can do all these powerful things and help you advance your goals in the community. Then we move into tool ones, which is much more like leveling up your bots and really taking the feedback that you might get in your analytics and supporting just deeper innovation. And we're definitely including the staff in this engagement because we're all working together, faculty, staff, and students, and you can have your students build as well.

So the second pillar is that we have a Solution Studio. As I mentioned already, all of you have been building really important tools that are applicable across context, and so we wanna make sure that those tools are available for you to remix. And then additionally, we just have, like I said, co-developed AI systems. We are not building for profit, right? We can't say this about the big guys who are not necessarily engaged in doing this work. They have private interests and we have public interest. So we are really working with the system to ensure that this platform is built for all of you to support the most vulnerable populations to create, as Chancellor Christian was saying earlier, it's equity of access, democratization, et cetera.

All right, so the scale of this partnership is unique by virtue of the fact that the community colleges in California are so big. So I'm getting told like it's like wrap it up. Don, you took too much time. You took all the time Don. Sorry.

All right, so the vision, we are supporting the vision 2030 and this AI ready workforce. We really are trying to think about, okay, how do we upskill? But then additionally, how are we creating those only human skills? How do we cultivate and anchor people in those skills while also advancing the tooling? So I think that's it. Thank you. I appreciate your time and listening to me. I hope to see you there. Bless you.

**Moderator**
I'm here to take more time. Okay, so a librarian, a college president, and a computer science researcher and a chatbot building education faculty member walk onto a stage.

Now this isn't the setup for a joke about artificial intelligence taking over higher ed, though honestly it might as well be. So welcome to Agentic AI in Higher Education: Preparing the Future Workforce Through Strategic Partnerships, where we've assembled what might be the most unlikely dream team since the Avengers, but with significantly more caffeine and considerably less superpowers.

Though our librarian would argue that finding obscure research papers in under 30 seconds is basically a superpower. Our college president brings the big picture vision. And by big picture we mean trying to figure out how to explain to the board why we need a budget approval for AI that might actually become smarter than all of us combined.

Our lead librarian has gone from shushing people to teaching them how to have productive conversations with chatbots. Talk about career evolution. Our computer science researcher is here to remind us that we think AI can do, and to remind us that what we think AI can do and what it actually can do are two very different things. And our education faculty member has been busy building chatbots, probably because grading papers at 2:00 AM finally drove them to seek digital assistance.

Together, they'll explore the burning question, how do we prepare students for a future where their study buddy might be an AI agent, their research assistant could be a sophisticated algorithm and their biggest academic challenge might be learning to collaborate with machines that never need coffee breaks.

Buckle up folks, this is going to be either brilliantly insightful or cautionary tale about what happens when educators try to outsmart the technology they're teaching. Either way it should be entertained. I'll introduce you to our panel.

**Panel Moderator**
Good afternoon everyone. Hi and welcome to our panel discussion, Agentic AI for Higher Education. And today our goal is to explore the promises and challenges of agentic AI and how colleges will be prepared for this transformative area on AI.

And let me now introduce my panelist. I'm delighted to introduce President Ajita Talwalker Menon, she's president and CEO of Calbright College. And Dr. C, you just saw Dr. C, she's the head of community learning and growth at Playlab and Dr. Alison Gurganus, she is serving as an innovation and emerging technology faculty specialist with the San Diego Community College District. So welcome all, and if you want to learn more about our panelists, their work, they're amazing, the stuff that they are doing, and you can find all the information available in our website. And thank you all for being here. Welcome.

So I'm gonna like start directly, don't have much time left. And let's begin with some clarity. So how do you define agentic AI and what distinguishes agentic AI from the traditional AI tools that students might already be using?

**Dr. Alison Gurganus**
I was gonna take that one. I'm also your librarian, but. So we thought we would let you know for those that haven't quite gotten their hands around the whole agentic situation. So we are familiar with large language models, which is a conversation. So we speak, we write back and forth. We have a conversation with our large language model. And so it's sort of a one way, oh, are we not? Okay. Is that, there we go. Hi.

So it's a conversation that we're having with a large language model. Agentic doesn't just have a conversation with you, it is a tool that does tasks for you. So I'll give you an example that anybody can probably relate to. Let's say I want go to Oahu and I don't have time to deal with this. So what I do is I tell my agent, "Look, here is my number for American Airlines, here is the seats I like to sit in. Here's all the information about my likes and dislikes about airlines, and here's all my information about a hotel. This is the hotel I like to do. Here's my rewards number for this hotel. These are the kind of rooms I like to stay in, so go."

And it will make the reservations for me. Let's say I find out, then I have to go on the fifth of every month back to Oahu. Then it will make those reservations for me and just let me know. There you go. Now this is a very simple agent AI system. They get much more complicated and they can also talk to one another as they get more complicated. So one agent can speak to another agent. So it's large language models on steroids and they can do things for us as opposed to just conversating with us.

**Panel Moderator**
Okay, so, you know, that's impressive and this distinction between the traditional AI tools and the agentic AI is kind of transformative. So I think we'll come to a point that the agent will do much more stuff for us and I will hope I'll get into that time soon.

And if we want to move a little bit from the definition and the technicals, so what human competencies become more critical in AI augmented workplace, and should we teach them?

**President Ajita Talwalker Menon**
I'm happy to start. I think, you know, at Calbright we're indexing very hard on durable skills. And these are often skills that we talk about. We used to talk about them as soft skills and as we enter this phase where the thing that we're asking folks to navigate is not just their educational experience and their credential, but increasingly a very uncertain and evolving labor market.

Indexing on those skills becomes very important. And it's not just the critical thinking and the collaboration, the communication skills. It is a hundred percent the skills around resiliency, emotional quotient, and our ability to support self-efficacy, to actually empower our learners to take action and to vary action as they enter the workforce.

How we teach those skills becomes critically important. I was having this conversation with Michael Stewart who is the head of our academic senate, and also doing some incredible work as a faculty leader in the system as well around the ability to contextualize these skills in different discipline and domain areas so that students actually have tactical experience interacting with AI tools and resources as a part of not just their educational experience, but as a tool of empowerment, as a tool that allows them to actually show what they can do in addition to being able to demonstrate that the learning that has occurred around those skills.

So I think these are gonna continue to be maybe the sort of cream that rise to the top in terms of the skills that are needed and the more, not just exposure. but coaching interaction and embedded experiences that students have in developing those skills and in being able to showcase those skills, the more formidable they become as they position for what will be an ever changing job market.

**Panel Moderator**
And as you mentioned student and how we should integrate our student into all this transformative agentic AI world. What do you think the barriers that can face us when we want to integrate AI into the educational system? Like I will say our community college system, I want to hear that from like the expert opinion. So I think knowing those barriers, maybe will be more prepared to what's coming and will have better tools facing all this transformation in the AI world.

**President Ajita Talwalker Menon**
I'm going start the barrier discussion in one thing, I thought we'd spend a little bit more time on the opportunity and the power, but we'll go back to that for sure. I have to say that one of the things that feels most important for every institutional leader in this moment is to move with intention in this space and to really look at what is the sort of unsexy work that has to happen within an institution and an organization to be AI ready.

And for us, and I know a number of colleges in this system, I think, you know, we're working with an incredible organization, AQL labs, who I think is here somewhere. So if you encounter them or seek them out asking about their work along with MiraCosta College and Long Beach College and Merced, who are at various stages in examining as an institution, what does their technology stack look like? What does their cloud based infrastructure look like? How does their data architecture need to be positioned in order to support all the exciting opportunities that are out there to leverage this technology, not just the power that it has, but the way that it can empower our learners and empower our institutions to service our students better and to drive better outcomes for our students.

So that foundational piece is critically important. We're a bit farther along in that than a lot of other institutions that I've been talking to. But if we do that part right, then all the other things that it unlocks can be extraordinary and it allows us to retain the agency as an educational institution that we need to properly and responsibly oversee the leverage use of these technologies.

**Panel Moderator**
Yeah, I totally agree. Having those type of connection, communication to prepare our student to the agenetic AI or the future, that brings to my mind that very important idea that you are referring to which collaboration.

So everything we can, when we get into a new technology, a new world, you know, we always, as a higher education or an educational system, we look always for how we can collaborate within the industry with institutions to better prepare our students or to provide them the school they need to the world of the agentic AI. So what do you think, what makes successful partnership between the higher education and the industry in the context of AI education? What shape would look like?

**Dr. Christyna Serrano (Dr. C)**
I'm gonna be biased here if that's okay. In order to do something, I'm gonna thread something here, which is when we think about the skills that are necessary, I want you to think about what are the purposes of education? And we're always pipelining students in the future workforce, and that's really important. That's part of the work of doing, you know, schooling in a formal manner.

And in the United States context in particular, so much of our identities are rolled up in these are my achievements, this is where I work, right? It's all about our productivity. And I think what's interesting about what's coming is that as AI continues to essentially take away all these things that we identify as like what makes us like who we are, we have to really consider the question of like what does it even mean to be human? Because agentic AI can do all these things, it's pretty powerful what it can achieve.

And we have to rethink one, you have to have a mindset shift around like, okay, not only what does it mean to be human, but then who am I collaborating with? And you have to have a relationship almost, not in this sort of like human way, but you have to have this, you have to think about like, okay, if everything is going to be a machine and human collaboration, what role do I play in that and how do I facilitate these types of relationships?

And as older jobs go away as a result of this kind of redefining disruptive technology and even disruptive in the sense of even what it means to be like human, what is the future of work even going to be and what role will I play and how does that counter with, I still have bills to pay, right? And how are we even thinking about this new economy as a result of that?

So jobs will come, we've seen that, right? So I always like to quote Kevin Kelly, he has a book called, The Inevitable: The 12 Technological Forces that Will Shape Our Future. He talks about electrification. So previous to the industrial revolution, we had farmers at 70%, and then today about 1% is farmers. And so they would look at our jobs today and be like, "What the what?" Right? So we're in that moment, we're at this inflection point.

And so how do you enable your students, right, to feel like they can be creators of set futures, not just receivers of the future, but if they are change makers, how do you develop the agency, right, for them to navigate what is an unknown future, but also to define it. And so I think that's a critical piece.

And so partnerships, I think, are really important in terms of there's two orientations, right? So you have consumer based models or consumer based companies, which, you know, in the United States in particular, the goal is AGI, right? It's a race, it's breaking things no matter what the consequences we're going forward in this way and it's not attending necessarily to, well, should we stop, should we consider, right?

And then you have something like Playlab, which is very much about how do we think carefully about this? And so because we're coming from that point of view, our partnership focus is really in leaning into the expertise, the humans that enable the driving of this change and the supporting, the empowering of these change makers to not only take this change but then move it forward in a particular way that would be in service to the public good. And so I think it's critical that if you're gonna partner, you're really creating spaces for that co-creation or that co-construction to be able to happen, and then there's all the sort of operational logistic things that go with it.

**President Ajita Talwalker Menon**
I actually think the two tie together really nicely. We've been thinking about that a lot. There's so many points along the journey that are gonna be not can we, which used to be the question, but should we? And there is, you know, I think we've sort of just laid out the value on that within our institution and our organization, which is like the human is in the loop. That is a choice because increasingly it may not be required in a lot of different areas.

So that is a choice to make for a lot of different organizations and entities, not just in higher education, about the future that they're gonna chart. And I do think it is critically important to not always accelerate towards the shiniest object of what could be. But you know, that when I speak about intentionality or spoke about intentionality, it's very much this thing. How do we empower and use these tools to supercharge the work that is largely human driven within our organizations? Because particularly in the space of education, there's something important and sacred about that evolution of the human condition that is something we're uniquely positioned to do. And so I love the way that you talked about that, because I think that's exactly right.

**Dr. Christyna Serrano (Dr. C)**
And to your point, I want you to say something too, but to your point, like we need to teach our young people and we need to teach ourselves, AI has its place. It doesn't empathize, it's not human, even though it's built to feel that way. It has its place and you are the boss of it. And it's really important to understand that, especially with young people who are having relationships with it, right? It's causing real harm. It's really rethinking what is the role of agentic AI or AI in particular, and how do we help people understand it's a tool, it's a powerful tool, but understanding the technical like workings of it, I think help with supporting people in making those decisions about have it's place, know how to control it. If it's your teammate, it's still a machine.

**Panel Moderator**
I love that. You know, I love that. And giving the fact that our students are relying a lot on AI and even with the look like, you know, I will say traditional AI tool, GPTs and stuff like that, they were like deeply working with those. And now we are going into agentic AI like even more.

So what do you think like from your, you know, opinion, how we can prepare our students to traditional from using like simple AI or traditional AI to agentic AI and the same way we are needed to keep it as ethical, as responsible as, I will say, humanized as possible?

**Dr. Alison Gurganus**
Well, you said it, it's AI literacy. This is AI literacy on another level. But without that foundation of AI literacy, you're not gonna get your ethics. You're not going to get so many things. You need to understand how to evaluate that output. You need to understand how to prompt, you can't have an agent work for you well unless you know how to tell it what to do.

And that back to the partnerships with industry, we find that some of the skills that are going to be needed instead of those baseline skills that may, those jobs that you first go into, there will be more managerial jobs that will be talking to humans and talking to agents, so you're managing both things.

So when we look at the skills needed by these students, there's a lot more collaboration needed, a lot more discussing with one another, communication skills, project skills. These becomes more and more like the durable skills that you were mentioning, becomes much more important when we're dealing with these agents, and it's all based on AI literacy.

And for me, when I go back into barriers, it's one faculty member at a time because we need to teach AI literacy to all faculty. Even if it's no AI in my class, it's okay. They need to have that conversation though with why no AI in my class and you have this class that you can use all the AI in their class. What is it about my class that is different? And they need to be able to discuss these things. So they have to have a level of AI literacy that they can have that discussion. So this is just a baseline that they need to have.

And again, it's one faculty member at a time. You know, one of the barriers that I see are faculty members who are just, it is too much, it's just too much. And it's affecting their assignments, it's affecting their assessments. How can we support them so that they can deal with the fact that they are not necessarily getting paid to redo all those assignments and assessments? So this is how we get to the students is also through the faculty and we do all the workshops and we do all of the discussions and we wanna get them together in disciplined groups so they can talk amongst themselves.

And we also need them to talk amongst curricular areas because in the workplace they're dealing with lots of different areas. They're not in silos like we are often in the education system. So we need to start to level those playing fields and get people talking amongst one another.

**President Ajita Talwalker Menon**
I love the like taking us from the sort of learning, knowing. And I think for our students particularly, they come to us with a goal in mind, which is a career goal and so they learn best by the doing.

And one of the other areas when we talk about partnership that feels really important is the places which give them opportunities or the partnerships that give them opportunities to try these things out. So we have two partnerships that I think are particularly exciting for our learners because they bring them closer to the world of work in a way that is meaningful and actually has some transactional value for them.

This incredible partnership with Riipen, which is a work-based learning platform and the work with Riipen is particularly instructive and useful because it gives students an opportunity to not just play around with tools, but to actually have that micro internship experience. To actually have something that becomes an artifact on their resume that is not just about the credential, but is about demonstrating to an employer what they can do and demonstrating to themselves what they can do and accomplish.

And similarly, we have a really exciting opportunity with HubSpot and the work around HubSpot was really leaning into AI and technology forward tools in as a CRM platform, so in the marketing space and really thinking about, again, with a micro internship opportunity or with a work-based learning project, how can we allow our learners to explore with partners who will help kind of facilitate the opportunities that are gonna set them up for success against their goal, not our goal as an institution.

So when we talk about collaboration, all the folks that have to come to the table, the closer we thread to the folks that are making those decisions on the demand side, it becomes very important in terms of the position and the strength that our learners have in a very competitive and conflicted job market.

**Dr. Christyna Serrano (Dr. C)**
Can I ask? I think that's so cool. And one more plug for Playlab. But no, seriously, like so in the summer, for example, well actually in all my courses, my students build change maker chatbots. They identify a problem in community that they care about and then they build an AI tool that acts as an assistant to support whatever movement they might be trying to make or to address specific problems.

And so students create the most meaningful, amazing things. And then because you can publish that chatbot, you can share it out, I've had students put that on their LinkedIn profiles and have them be able to demonstrate, I know how to system prompt, I know how to configure a chatbot. I know how to, but you're also embedding the literacy skills within it. A system prompt is all about understanding the problem, who your target audience is, leveraging design thinking, leveraging storytelling, understanding how to communicate effectively. How does this chatbot or this AI enable collaboration or enable you to just extend the impact of your change making endeavors. So I love that about literacy.

I think staff is incredibly important. I don't think we, you know, like it's the whole ecosystem working together and all of us developing those capacities. 'Cause I think the relationship between students and teachers is also, I think we're in a new world, right, 'cause we're all learning at the same time as our students are learning these skills. And so I just wanted to highlight that, that it's the opportunity for people to be able to build is such an incredible skill that will serve them well going forward, especially when the workplace will demand you to be able to know how to effectively work with AI and agents.

**President Ajita Talwalker Menon**
I love what you also said about the connection between the learner and the educator that's shifting. This idea of a conversation between them. And I'm flashing back to my child just discovered ChatGPT and the first thing she did was design an American girl doll in her likeness. And then she, it is a hilarious feed. I will happily share out.

But you know, the next jump she made was she was asked to do some homework around the states. And so she said, "I'm gonna ask ChatGPT for my states. And I said, "Wait a second, talk to me a little bit about how you're using it." And the conversation she had was, "Well, I know I meant sources. So I was taught to research and to get sources and beyond Google, I'm gonna use this." And I was like, "Okay."

So she went through this thing, it seemed credible from my perspective, but I'm not her teacher. And so I said, "Listen, I think it's really important that you talk to your teacher about how you're using this, understand her expectations about it, clarify her expectations about it. Show her what you're doing, show show her your work." And it was just a moment when I was reflecting on it when you said that, where I thought, yeah, that is actually such an important part of the teaching and learning process now. And it's not just because people, you know, it's not a cheating conversation. It's actually, I'm not sure where the lines are. How do we actually bring out, draw out and assess where those can be? And if that varies by the person who is at the front of the classroom, you know, how do we give, you know, our learners the sort of skills to kind of have those kinds of conversations? Very different.

**Panel Moderator**
Yeah, mentioning your director, I have a faculty that's teaching AI, she developed a chatbot for her families that has all the schedule, the kids schedule this morning. And yeah, every family was sharing that and it was fantastic. She was on Daylight, Nectar all those and she got it from that.

I think extending this outside school, outside, it's also literacy, it's also AI literacy. Like we are people, you know, outside the education environment are learning about AI are developing, are using AI. And that will be even preparing them better for the new AI era.

And one code that I use it for all my, because I'm one of the AI nerds in my school and some people like will say, "We are anti AI, we will not accept AI." So one code that I keep using it in all my presentation is for Roseville. Like when change come, the best thing to do one is the, I will say, the one thing to do is the best thing and the worst thing to do is to do nothing. So the worst thing is to do nothing. So we don't want just to, you know, do nothing about AI. We all need to be, you know, changing all the way that we are learning, using, working to be prepared for the AI.

And we talked about industry, we talk about student slide, now because this is this full community call. So as a community call system, what do you think like one concrete thing, one main action that can community college do immediately to be better prepare students for the agentic AI?

**Dr. Alison Gurganus**
I'm trying to think of something that I did not say a minute ago. Yeah, it's the AI literacy. I keep going back, and the ethics, understanding how to communicate with each other and with the tools. Somehow finding ways to get that to everyone, classified professionals, administrators, students, faculty, because it's foundational and we can't get to the next level until we have that foundation. And people learn differently. So maybe for some it means playing with the tool first and then realizing I can't get where I wanna go, what do I need to do? And helping them at that level.

Sometimes it's getting them into a session, explaining how things work to give them the permission to put their toe in the water or the permission to start using chatbots or the permission to ask about agents and see what's going on.

Also, people get overwhelmed and I try and let them know that perhaps it's best to stay in their lane. The landscape can get dystopian and it can get scary, but if we focus on what is affecting us and what we need to do to respond, that is helpful.

You see something in the chronicles of higher ed that talks about gen AI and education. I'm in education, gen AI is affecting me, let me read that. You hear something on national public radio, you hear something wherever, this is very helpful.

And to get people to understand that constant learning, that constant keeping up in your lane is very, very helpful. It's the librarian in me, right? Research and information is my jam, you know? But if I was AI literate in 2023 and I did nothing between 2023 and now, I'm no longer AI literate. So keeping up with that and keeping that around is of the utmost importance and those are actions that can be done now. We can continue, once you've done a series of workshops, there's a series of people that did not get those workshops, so they need to be continued, and at levels. We have to support these sessions and really get this professional development to all levels as much as we possibly can.

**President Ajita Talwalker Menon**
I agree with what you said. I think yes and you know, leaning into the community part of community college feels critically important in this moment. And sometimes we think our community is the four corners of our institution, and this is an important opportunity that if it is not our institutions that are getting out there and supporting the overall AI literacy capabilities of the communities we operate in, that is an extraordinary disservice.

I think we have a unique responsibility and also a unique vantage point in which to do that. We are leaning very heavily into that space to be able to find more instances where we can provide, you know, content or learning support that can be self navigated, that can be a tool and a resource. I know this is a big priority for the chancellor under her vision and it's something we're excited to contribute to, but I think it really does take everyone in the room in the privileged position that we sit in to do that, because what is happening out there if left to its own devices and what is being imposed upon our community members is frightening and you know, careens us towards that dystopian state.

And whether it's within K-12 public education or community college public education, we have an extraordinary opportunity to do something differently and to chart a course that's different for our communities to thrive given a lot of this is happening in such a wildly deregulated environment and in a way where there is not clarity or transparency around how these technologies come into play and how they interact and are used in our everyday lives. And so I just wanna emphasize, I don't wanna leave this conversation without taking that charge on, you know, as an entire system.

**Dr. Christyna Serrano (Dr. C)**
I'll just add that I think a key skill that we need to make sure everyone develops is the ability to learn how to learn. So question for the audience: How do you think I've developed my expertise? And expertise, I hold loosely, agentic AI. What do you think? How have I learned that? AI taught me. I talked to AI, I spent a lot of days with Claude, my friend there, and just asking it questions like what is agentic AI? How does that even work? What do you mean it can call tools? What is a vector? What, a token? I have no idea what you're talking about. Break it down for me like I'm five.

And I think that's what's powerful about AI is that it enables all of us to be able to meet ourselves where we're at. And then the key components are really critically thinking about the outputs, understanding how AI works as a probability machine. It's non-deterministic. How many times have you written an email or a draft of something you are like, "Hey ChatGPT, I really like this section, but the rest of this like just focus on revising that section and then just keep everything else the same." And then what happens? It rewrites whole damn thing.

And that's because it's non-deterministic. It's using probabilities around what the next word should be and it's math, right? And so I think understanding that and then understanding that agentic AI is about pairing these large language models and the power that it has to be able to sort of like make these predictions about what likely goes together with tools that make it deterministic.

So okay, you have student data, so I'm making maybe an assignment in my class. I'm really trying to evaluate. Maybe I create an assessment that is enabling itself to meet a student. Like maybe you need it to be done in Spanish. Maybe this needs to come down another level, or it needs to be giving you different kinds of examples. So the large language model enables that interaction with that student.

The agentic part is maybe it is embedding certain tools that keep it consistent where it's like, oh, okay, it's working with a rubric. It's able to grade through a rubric because it's a calling, a tool, what's attached to your LMS. And so that's the power of that.

And I think as you move forward, it's much more about how do you create conditions that enable people to develop the muscle around, I'm a lifelong learner. I will always need to learn. My favorite author, as I was just saying, has this concept of becoming. The tools themselves are always becoming. You were just saying, like if you stop, it was just a week. In the week, I feel like oh my god, I'm so behind, right? And so if you stop, you know, you lose., right?

And so how do we enable ourselves to love learning, be curious, to be playful with it and to enable ourselves to use this tool. How do you encourage students or young people or people in general to develop that muscle? You've gotta be a lifelong learner and that will keep you afloat in what is a very precarious kind of world we're navigating. It will enable you to have a voice, enable you to say what you think this should be, to be at tables that you would otherwise not avail yourself or be present at if you don't take the time to be a self learner. And so I think even orienting our systems around that. Like how do you construct learning experiences, classroom experiences where we have to learn how to learn is essentially what it comes down to. It's a skill, it's a necessary one to, I think, survive in this future.

**Panel Moderator**
So I'm a faculty and maybe I forget at the beginning, I'm the Folsom Lake College AI department chair. I always go to my dean with like maybe, you know, 20 plans for the three more semester. You know, when such faculty come to be, "Oh my god, she's here again." So I'm that person with a lot of class. So always I like to have that future look what will happen next, how we can prepare. So from your opinion, where we will see agentic AI in five years?

**Dr. Alison Gurganus**
My hope is we'll see it, and there are ethical issues to this that we do need privacy and security issues that we need to be very concerned about. I see a system that can go into your student services records, see that a student has been availing themself of certain services. It can go into Canvas and show the last five essays and the fact that they've been doing less and less in each essay and can go into various aspects where you get the idea and can then tell the instructor, "Hey, you know, you're losing this student. This student might be dropping out and they're not getting this content area, so maybe you should go to this student and give them this kind of feedback about, you know, get them excited about that content and get them more excited about the class."

They could also, for example, an instructor could see all of their students information and be able to tell that everybody's getting all the content except for this. Why? I'm suddenly able to see that. And then the agentic AI can help them create the lesson plans that can get them back on track with that and differentiate that instruction. So my athletes are not doing as well as the others also in that area, so how can I differentiate the instruction for those students? And it can help them create those lessons.

So the things coming together to help us do the work that we want to do in a more productive manner. Get to the reason we we got to education in the first place. We can get back to that without having to go through every single solitary essay. No, no. How is it about that? You know, and this is of course only from the faculty perspective, but this is something that I would hope to see within to five years. And having this be normal, not something special, having this kind of thing be something that just helps us get better at what we do.

**President Ajita Talwalker Menon**
So I'll say like we're kind of there right now at the foundational stages of putting that into place. And I'll say two things about it. One is, you know, conceptually calling this like a Calbright, like a student learning engine. And the idea is how do you from an end-to-end experience connect all the dots of available understanding to get that 360 view of a learner.

So it is important for our faculty to have access and understanding of what's happening in a student's life, just as it is important for our counseling staff and student support specialists to have that. And largely the lead from that comes from the learners themselves. So the reason that college was possible for them and the reason they chose to do it with us at Calbright and the responsibility that we have to that has to do with the fact that it was flexibly paced but it was fully supported.

And so everything that we do in terms of empowering our faculty, our staff, whether it's counseling or student support specialists or IT support who are student facing, is about giving the proper amount of visibility to the things that will allow us to get ahead of proactively what our learners need.

And so when I talk about the data architecture and infrastructure that's necessary to really leverage these tools in service of student success, right? In service of students' own goals, their own progression and stronger outcomes for them, those are the pieces that have to come together and we're kind of laying the foundation for those pieces right now within the technology side. It's a little bit different for us, largely because, you know, we've been built from the ground up to be digitally enabled.

But I do think, you know, the more that institutions progress at unifying data across the institution, the faster we will get to the vision you're describing. It can be really powerful if we do it and move in ways that are intentional.

**Dr. Christyna Serrano (Dr. C)**
I was just gonna say that data is really power. Like the California Community College systems reflect like data and you kind of have to pick sides. I'm gonna end with that. Meaning, think about when you're using a tool when it comes to AI, whose interests are at play? I heard recently for example, like when you get something for free it's 'cause you're the product. That data is what enables these large language models to do what they do and that they are data hungry and they continue to consume. So there's power in being able to say, we're gonna hold our data in a protected way so that it's in service to our students and to these educational objectives versus other reasons why. Partnerships may be about, we really want to work with you in the K-12. So like Google, right? Google is in the K-12 system. Those are early brand users, right? We need to think critically about are there alignments in the kinds of partnerships or the tools we're using? Because power is coming from that data. So that'll be my closing statement. Pick five.

**Panel Moderator**
Thank you. I know which side I'm gonna take. I know, we're all the same side. Yes, I think so.

So I think today we see our agentic AI is more than technical rule, it is a shifting paradigm, taking us from all the, I would say, usual simple AI tool that used to and provide more opportunities, more innovation, but also it'll bring some barriers, it'll bring some challenges. But I think we are ready to face all that and I think we are on time.

And let me, on behalf of the Future Summit 2025, thank you to our panelists. So I wanna stop here and as we are shaping our future, we will continue discussing, innovating, and meeting and working together. Thank you all.
